Source: Page 7 (LEFT)
Page: 7, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 434
--------------------------------------------------
CARNEY ET AL
TABLE 3. Updated Recommendations: Thresholdsa,b
Topic
Recommendations
Blood pressure thresholds
Level III
• Maintaining SBP at ≥100 mm Hg for patients 50 to 69 years old or at ≥110 mm Hg or above for
patients 15 to 49 or >70 years old may be considered to decrease mortality and improve outcomes.
Intracranial pressure thresholds
Level IIB
• Treating ICP >22 mm Hg is recommended because values above this level are associated with
increased mortality.
Level III
• A combination of ICP values and clinical and brain CT findings may be used to make management
decisions.
*The committee is aware that the results of the RESCUEicp trial2 were released after the completion of these
Guidelines. The results of this trial may affect these recommendations and may need to be considered by
treating physicians and other users of these Guidelines. We intend to update these recommendations if
needed. Updates will be available at https://braintrauma.org/coma/guidelines.
Cerebral perfusion pressure
Level IIB
thresholds
• The recommended target CPP value for survival and favorable outcomes is between 60 and 70 mm
Hg. Whether 60 or 70 mm Hg is the minimum optimal CPP threshold is unclear and may depend
upon the autoregulatory status of the patient.
Level III
• Avoiding aggressive attempts to maintain CPP >70 mm Hg with fluids and pressors may be considered
because of the risk of adult respiratory failure.
Advanced cerebral monitoring
Level III
thresholds
• Jugular venous saturation of <50% may be a threshold to avoid in order to reduce mortality and improve
outcomes.
aCPP, cerebral perfusion pressure; CT, computed tomography; ICP, intracranial pressure; RESCUEicp trial, Randomised Evaluation of Surgery with Craniectomy for Uncontrollable
Elevation of ICP; SBP, systolic blood pressure.
bBold: New or revised recommendations.
will be necessary, but not sufficient, for the generation of strong
evidence.
New Research Approaches
It is reasonable to consider how different research designs might
be used to identify which treatments work best, for whom, and
under what circumstances. This is the possibility of Comparative Effectiveness Research, which is being promoted by funding
agencies and adopted by large consortium efforts in the brain
trauma research community. However, at the operational level,
Comparative Effectiveness Research still is subject to many of
the same vulnerabilities as traditional research, because it is
accomplished using randomized controlled trials and observational studies. A transition to a new focus on Comparative Effectiveness Research must be accompanied by consistent adherence
to evidence-based protocols.
CONCLUSION
Often, the available evidence is not sufficient to generate guidelines addressing the most critical questions faced by clinicians
12 | VOLUME 80 | NUMBER 1 | JANUARY 2017
www.neurosurgery-online.com