Source: Page 3 (LEFT)
Page: 3, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 478
--------------------------------------------------
CARNEY ET AL
Derivation of Recommendations
Development of Recommendations
Class 1, 2, and 3 studies constitute the evidence on which the
recommendations are based. Under our current methods, identification
of evidence is necessary but not sufficient for the development of
recommendations. No recommendations were made without a basis in
evidence.
Once evidence was identified, whether it could be used to inform
recommendations was based on the quality of the body of evidence
and consideration of applicability. Given this, there were cases in which
evidence was identified, but the quality was low, and applicability
concerns restricted the ability to translate the evidence into recommendations. Even if a recommendation was not made, the evidence was
included to acknowledge its place in the body of evidence and make
it accessible for future consideration. As new studies are generated and
added to the evidence base, we expect to see changes in the assessment of
the quality of the body of evidence.
Level of Recommendations
Recommendations in this edition are designated as Level I, Level IIA, Level II-B, or Level III. The Level of Recommendation is determined
by the assessment of the quality of the body of evidence, rather than the
class of the included studies.
The levels were primarily based on the quality of the body of evidence
as follows:
• Level I recommendations were based on a high-quality body of
evidence.
• Level IIA recommendations were based on a moderate-quality body
of evidence.
• Level IIB and III recommendations were based on a low-quality body
of evidence.
The class of studies in the body of evidence was the basis for making
the distinction between a Level IIB or a Level III recommendation.
Level IIB recommendations were based on a body of evidence with Class
2 studies that provided direct evidence but were of overall low quality.
Level III recommendations were based on Class 3 studies or on Class 2
studies providing only indirect evidence.
Consideration of applicability could result in a Level III recommendation (eg, a “moderate-quality body of evidence” with significant applicability concerns). In this edition, applicability alone was not used to
downgrade a recommendation. Currently, there is a lack of standards and
developed methods in this area, so we elected to cite applicability issues
that were identified and discussed by the authors.
“Insufficient” was used in cases in which the body of evidence was
insufficient to support a recommendation because there were no studies
identified or because the body of evidence had major quality limitations.
If the evidence was insufficient, no recommendation was made.
RECOMMENDATIONS
Revised Recommendations
There are now 28 evidence-based recommendations; 14 are
new or changed from the previous edition, while 14 have not
changed. These include 1 Level I, 7 Level IIA, 10 Level IIB, and
10 Level III recommendations. There are 7 Third Edition recom8 | VOLUME 80 | NUMBER 1 | JANUARY 2017
www.neurosurgery-online.com