Source: Page 5 (LEFT)
Page: 5, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 440
--------------------------------------------------
CARNEY ET AL
TABLE 1. Continued
Topic
Recommendations
Level III
• Antimicrobial-impregnated catheters may be considered to prevent catheter-related infections during
external ventricular drainage.
Deep vein thrombosis
Prophylaxis
Level III
• LMWH or low-dose unfractioned heparin may be used in combination with mechanical prophylaxis. However,
there is an increased risk for expansion of intracranial hemorrhage.
• In addition to compression stockings, pharmacologic prophylaxis may be considered if the brain injury is
stable and the benefit is considered to outweigh the risk of increased intracranial hemorrhage.
• There is insufficient evidence to support recommendations regarding the preferred agent, dose, or timing of
pharmacologic prophylaxis for deep vein thrombosis.
Seizure prophylaxis
Level IIA
• Prophylactic use of phenytoin or valproate is not recommended for preventing late PTS.
• Phenytoin is recommended to decrease the incidence of early PTS (within 7 d of injury), when the overall
benefit is thought to outweigh the complications associated with such treatment. However, early PTS have
not been associated with worse outcomes.
• At the present time there is insufficient evidence to recommend levetiracetam compared with
phenytoin regarding efficacy in preventing early post-traumatic seizures and toxicity.
aBtpO2, brain tissue O2 partial pressure; CBF, cerebral blood flow; CSF, cerebrospinal fluid drainage; DC, decompressive craniectomy; EEG, electroencephalogram; EVD, external
ventriculardrainage;GCS,GlasgowComaScale;GOS-E,GlasgowOutcomeScale—Extended;ICP,intracranialpressure;ICU,intensivecareunit;LMWH,lowmolecularweightheparin;
PaCO2, partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide; PI, povidone-iodine; PTS, posttraumatic seizures; RESCUEicp trial, Randomised Evaluation of Surgery with Craniectomy for Uncontrollable Elevation of ICP trial; SjO2, jugular venous oxygen saturation; TBI, traumatic brain injury.
bBold: New or revised recommendations.
the ICP and cerebral perfusion pressure monitoring recommendations.
Threshold Recommendations
These recommendations are related to threshold values
for parameters that are monitored during the in-hospital
management of patients with severe TBI. In this Fourth Edition,
we include thresholds for blood pressure, ICP, cerebral perfusion
pressure, and advanced cerebral monitoring. The threshold can
be a value to avoid in order to decrease the probability of negative
outcomes or a value to aim for in order to increase the probability
of positive outcomes, and it can be a value that triggers a change
in treatment.
DISCUSSION
New Evidence
In updating the recommendations, 102 articles were added to
the body of evidence. These fall into 3 categories. The 41 studies
listed in Table 4 contributed to additions or changes to the recommendations. Table 4 lists these by topic and includes basic information about the studies, including study design, the number of
patients included (N), and the data class. More details, including
outcomes and results, are included in the evidence tables and
narrative in the comprehensive guideline document available
online at https://www.braintrauma.org/coma/guidelines.
10 | VOLUME 80 | NUMBER 1 | JANUARY 2017
www.neurosurgery-online.com