Source: Page 2 (RIGHT)
Page: 2, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 475
--------------------------------------------------
BRAIN TRAUMA FOUNDATION TBI GUIDELINES
outcomes for the topic). Differences were resolved via consensus or by
a third reviewer. Detailed inclusion criteria and a list of studies excluded
after full-text review are in the comprehensive guideline document in
Appendices E and F.
Quality Assessment and Data Abstraction of Individual
Studies
All included studies were assessed for potential bias, which is a
systematic approach to assessing the internal validity or quality of
studies. The criteria used in the Third Edition were maintained and
applied to the newly identified studies of monitoring and treatments.
The criteria for threshold studies were revised to be specific to the
structure of threshold studies (see Appendix G for a complete list of
the quality criteria used for individual studies). Key data elements then
were extracted from each study. These were provided to the guideline
panel and summarized by topic in the guideline document (see summary
by topic in the comprehensive guideline document available online at
https://www.braintrauma.org/coma/guidelines). Class 1 is the highest
class and is limited to good-quality randomized trials. Class 2 includes
moderate-quality randomized controlled trials and good-quality cohort
or case-control studies. Class 3 is the lowest class and is given to lowquality randomized controlled trials, moderate- to low-quality cohort or
case control studies, and case series and other non-comparative designs.
Synthesis
The final phase of the evidence review is the synthesis of individual
studies into information that the Clinical Investigators and the Methods
Team use to develop recommendations. This synthesis is described for
each topic in the section titled Evaluation of the Evidence, after the
Recommendations and preceding the Evidence Summary, which can
be found in the comprehensive guideline document available online at
https://www.braintrauma.org/coma/guidelines.
Quality of the Body of Evidence
Assessing the quality of the body of evidence involves 4 domains: the
aggregate quality of the studies, the consistency of the results, whether
the evidence provided is direct or indirect, and the precision of the
evidence. The criteria and ratings are outlined in the Methods section
of the comprehensive guideline document, and more detailed definitions
are in Appendix H. In addition, the number of studies and number of
included subjects are considered. Based on these, an overall assessment is
made as to whether the quality of the body of evidence is high, moderate,
low, or insufficient. The assessment of the body of evidence for each
subtopic is included in a table in each topic section in the comprehensive
guideline document (https://braintrauma.org/coma/guidelines).
Applicability
Applicability is the extent to which research findings are useful
for informing recommendations for a broader population (usually
the population that is the target of the recommendations). Refer
to
the
comprehensive
guideline
document
available
online
at
https://www.braintrauma.org/coma/guidelines for a complete definition
of Applicability. In this edition, we consider the applicability of
individual studies in the Quality of the Body of Evidence and Applicability section immediately after the recommendations.