Source: Page 3 (RIGHT)
Page: 3, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 420
--------------------------------------------------
mendations that are restated here but are no longer substantiated
by evidence meeting current standards.
Tables 1, 2, and 3 provide the recommendations for treatments, monitoring, and thresholds, respectively. In these tables,
the recommendations in bold are new or have been revised;
those in regular text have not changed. The comprehensive
guideline document available online includes a section on each
topic consisting of an Introduction, Recommendations, Evaluation of the Evidence, and Summary of the Evidence (including
narrative and evidence tables).
Treatment Recommendations
Table 1 contains the recommendations for 11 treatments that
are either specific to the in-hospital management of severe TBI
or are related to risks experienced by patients with TBI. The
topics that are included reflect current practice but are expected
to change as new treatments are developed that may replace or
complement existing treatments.
Decompressive craniectomy and cerebrospinal fluid drainage
are new topics to this edition, so the recommendations for
these topics also are new. Other changes include revision of the
hypothermia, nutrition and infection prophylaxis recommendations, and a statement in the seizure prophylaxis topic that there
is not yet sufficient evidence to support a recommendation about
levetiracetam, despite its widespread use. The recommendations
for anesthetics have not changed, but we updated the reference
to the Food and Drug Administration warning that high doses
of propofol can increase the risk of morbidity.3 A list of the 41
studies that constitute the new evidence informing these recommendations is cited by topic in Table 4.4-44
Monitoring Recommendations
It is not monitoring per se that affects outcomes; rather, it
is using the information from monitoring to direct treatment.
Treatment informed by data from monitoring may result in
better outcomes than treatment informed solely by data from
clinical assessment. These recommendations are related to
the influence on patient outcomes of 3 types of monitoring:
ICP, cerebral perfusion pressure monitoring, and advanced
cerebral monitoring. Although we reviewed and report on
these monitoring modalities separately, it is important to
acknowledge
that
clinical
practice
in
most
high-income
countries incorporates multiple monitoring approaches as
well as ongoing clinical assessment. As such, treatment decisions
are not made using one source of information in isolation.
Conversely,
limited
resources
in
low-and-middle-income
countries often do not allow for technology-based monitoring,
and medical decisions may be driven by clinical assessment
alone. Therefore, the application of these guidelines will vary
depending upon the medical environment in which they are
used.
Table 2 contains revised recommendations for all 3 types of
monitoring. New evidence cited in Table 4 has led to revisions to