Source: Page 4 (LEFT)
Page: 4, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 638
--------------------------------------------------
TABLE 1. Updated Treatment Recommendationsa,b
Topic
Recommendations
Decompressive craniectomy
Level IIA
• Bifrontal DC is not recommended to improve outcomes as measured by the GOS-E score at 6 mo post-injury
in severe TBI patients with diffuse injury (without mass lesions), and with ICP elevation to values >20 mm
Hg for more than 15 min within a 1-h period that are refractory to first-tier therapies. However, this
procedure has been demonstrated to reduce ICP and to minimize days in the ICU.
• A large frontotemporoparietal DC (not less than 12 x 15 cm or 15 cm diameter) is recommended over a small
frontotemporoparietal DC for reduced mortality and improved neurologic outcomes in patients with
severe TBI.
*The committee is aware that the results of the RESCUEicp trial2 were released soon after the completion of these
Guidelines. The results of this trial may affect these recommendations and may need to be considered by treating
physicians and other users of these Guidelines. We intend to update these recommendations if needed. Updates
will be available at https://braintrauma.org/coma/guidelines.
Prophylactic hypothermia
Level IIB
• Early (within 2.5 h), short-term (48 h post-injury), prophylactic hypothermia is not recommended to
improve outcomes in patients with diffuse injury.
Hyperosmolar therapy
Recommendations from the prior (Third) Edition not supported by evidence meeting current standards.
Mannitol is effective for control of raised ICP at doses of 0.25 to 1 g/kg body weight. Arterial hypotension (systolic
blood pressure <90 mm Hg) should be avoided.
Restrict mannitol use prior to ICP monitoring to patients with signs of transtentorial herniation or progressive
neurologic deterioration not attributable to extracranial causes.
Cerebrospinal fluid drainage
Level III
• An EVD system zeroed at the midbrain with continuous drainage of CSF may be considered to lower ICP
burden more effectively than intermittent use.
• Use of CSF drainage to lower ICP in patients with an initial GCS <6 during the first 12 h after injury may be
considered.
Ventilation therapies
Level IIB
• Prolonged prophylactic hyperventilation with PaCO2 of ≤25 mm Hg is not recommended.
Recommendations from the prior (Third) Edition not supported by evidence meeting current standards.
Hyperventilation is recommended as a temporizing measure for the reduction of elevated ICP.
Hyperventilation should be avoided during the first 24 h after injury when CBF often is reduced critically.
If hyperventilation is used, SjO2 or BtpO2 measurements are recommended to monitor oxygen delivery.
Anesthetics, analgesics, and
sedatives
Level IIB
• Administration of barbiturates to induce burst suppression measured by EEG as prophylaxis against the
development of intracranial hypertension is not recommended.
• High-dose barbiturate administration is recommended to control elevated ICP refractory to maximum standard
medical and surgical treatment. Hemodynamic stability is essential before and during barbiturate therapy.
• Although propofol is recommended for the control of ICP, it is not recommended for improvement in mortality or
6-month outcomes. Caution is required as high-dose propofol can produce significant morbidity.3
Steroids
Level I
• The use of steroids is not recommended for improving outcome or reducing ICP. In patients with severe TBI,
high-dose methylprednisolone was associated with increased mortality and is contraindicated.
Nutrition
Level IIA
• Feeding patients to attain basal caloric replacement at least by the fifth day and at most by the seventh day
post-injury is recommended to decrease mortality.
Level IIB
• Transgastric jejunal feeding is recommended to reduce the incidence of ventilator-associated pneumonia.
Infection prophylaxis
Level IIA
• Early tracheostomy is recommended to reduce mechanical ventilation days when the overall benefit is thought to
outweigh the complications associated with such a procedure. However, there is no evidence that early
tracheostomy reduces mortality or the rate of nosocomial pneumonia.
• The use of PI oral care is not recommended to reduce ventilator-associated pneumonia and may cause an
increased risk of acute respiratory distress syndrome.
NEUROSURGERY
VOLUME 80 | NUMBER 1 | JANUARY 2017 | 9