Source: Page 2 (LEFT)
Page: 2, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 417
--------------------------------------------------
Scope of the Guidelines
The guidelines address treatment interventions, monitoring,
and treatment thresholds that are specific to TBI or that address
a risk that is greater in patients with TBI. The guidelines are not
intended to cover all topics relevant to the care of patients with
severe TBI. Topics related to general good care for all patients, or
all trauma patients, are not included.
Developing protocols that integrate TBI-specific, evidencebased recommendations with general best practices for trauma
patients, and that provide guidance, suggestions, or options in
areas of TBI management where the evidence is insufficient, is
outside the scope of these guidelines. These recommendations
are intended to provide the foundation on which protocols can
be developed that are appropriate to different treatment environments.
Living Guidelines
This Fourth Edition of the Guidelines is transitional. We do
not intend to produce a Fifth Edition. Rather, we are moving
to a model of continuous monitoring of the literature, rapid
updates to the evidence review, and revisions to the recommendations as the evidence warrants. We call this the Living Guidelines model. This is driven by several trends, including advances in
technology, the increasing volume of available information, and
the corresponding change in expectations among clinicians and
other stakeholders. A static document that is updated after several
years no longer responds to the demands of the community we
serve.
The first test of this approach will involve incorporating the
results of the RESCUEicp (Randomised Evaluation of Surgery
with Craniectomy for Uncontrollable Elevation of ICP) study,
which was published just after the completion of this edition.
This study is a randomized, controlled trial that evaluates decompressive craniectomy as a secondary procedure, after ICP-targeted
medical therapies have failed.2 The results of this trial will be
evaluated and may impact recommendations related to decompressive craniectomy as well as ICP thresholds.
METHODS
The development of guidelines encompasses 2 major activities: first,
a systematic review and synthesis of evidence; and second, the derivation
of recommendations.
Systematic Evidence Review and Synthesis
Literature Search and Review
Our literature search protocol is detailed in the comprehensive
guideline document, and the search strategies are in Appendix D
to the same document. Both documents are available online at
https://www.braintrauma.org/coma/guidelines.
The key criteria for including studies in the review were as follows:
the population was adult patients with severe TBI (defined as Glasgow
Coma Scale Score of 3-8), and the study assessed an included outcome
(mortality; neurologic function; or appropriate, selected, intermediate
NEUROSURGERY
VOLUME 80 | NUMBER 1 | JANUARY 2017 | 7