Source: Page 6 (LEFT)
Page: 6, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 419
--------------------------------------------------
TABLE 2. Updated Monitoring Recommendationsa,b
Topic
Recommendations
Intracranial pressure monitoring
Level IIB
• Management of severe TBI patients using information from ICP monitoring is recommended to
reduce in-hospital and 2-week post-injury mortality.
Recommendations from the prior (Third) Edition not supported by evidence meeting current standards.
ICP should be monitored in all salvageable patients with a TBI (GCS 3-8 after resuscitation) and an abnormal
CT scan. An abnormal CT scan of the head is one that reveals hematomas, contusions, swelling, herniation,
or compressed basal cisterns.
ICP monitoring is indicated in patients with severe TBI with a normal CT scan if ≥2 of the following features
are noted at admission: age >40 years, unilateral or bilateral motor posturing, or SBP <90 mm Hg.
Cerebral perfusion pressure
monitoring
Level IIB
• Management of severe TBI patients using guidelines-based recommendations for CPP monitoring is
recommended to decrease 2-wk mortality.
Advanced cerebral monitoring
Level III
• Jugular bulb monitoring of AVDO2, as a source of information for management decisions, may be
considered to reduce mortality and improve outcomes at 3 and 6 mo post-injury.
aAVDO2, arteriovenous oxygen content difference; CPP, cerebral perfusion pressure; CT, computed tomography; GCS, Glasgow Coma Scale; ICP, intracranial pressure; SBP, systolic
blood pressure; TBI, traumatic brain injury.
bBold: New or revised recommendations.
Individual Studies
We could begin the critical self-examination of our research
methods by returning to the recommendations of the Clinical
Trials in Head Injury Study Group.45 They encouraged (in part):
• Identification and testing of specific (appropriate) subgroups of
patients with TBI
• Standardized clinical management across centers
• Independent monitoring of patient management and data
quality
• Parsimonious data collection
• Identification of relevant outcome measures and adequate time
to follow-up
• Identification of clinically relevant effect size
A useful exercise might be to examine the extent to which
our community is adhering to these recommendations and to
fundamental tenets of evidence-based medicine in the design
and conduct of our current work. That only will be useful
if done inside a full recognition of the current paradigm
for conducting clinical research. Unfortunately, the realities of
conducting clinical research sometimes compromise sound scientific methods. Moving from a pilot to a full-scale study may
include:
• Revision of, and heterogeneity in, inclusion criteria to increase
sample size
• Revision of the protocol for delivering the intervention
• An increase in the number of research centers to increase
sample size and to speed recruitment in order to decrease study
NEUROSURGERY
VOLUME 80 | NUMBER 1 | JANUARY 2017 | 11