--- Page 5 (LEFT) ---
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
THE MANAGEMENT OF 
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
ASSESSMENT
--- Page 5 (RIGHT) ---


--- Page 6 (LEFT) ---
TRIAGE AND TRANSPORT
KEY POINTS
 
• Rapidly transport adult and pediatric patients with 
suspected TBI who meet any high-risk criteria from the 
scene to the highest-level trauma center available.
 
• During transport, monitor patients with suspected TBI 
for hypotension, hypoxia, hypercarbia, and hypothermia, 
and begin corrective actions.
Proper field triage is critical for adult and pediatric patients 
with suspected TBI. Trauma patients with TBI can require 
rapid resuscitation, surgical intervention, and critical care 
management to prevent secondary brain injury. Refer to 
the ACS National Guideline for the Field Triage of Injured 
Patients.1 Emergency medical services clinicians are directed 
to transport all patients to the highest-level trauma center 
when TBI is suspected and any of the following high-risk 
criteria are present:
 
• Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) motor score < 6
 
• GCS total score < 13 
 
• Skull deformity or suspected skull fracture
 
• Signs of basilar skull fracture
 
• Penetrating head injury
 
• Caregiver report of baseline behavior change in an 
infant/child following injury
Within the geographic constraints of the regional trauma 
system, trauma centers provide the expertise, personnel, 
and facilities to rapidly deliver definitive care for patients 
with TBI. Suspect TBI for all trauma patients with an 
altered mental state, who are “found down,” or with any 
neurologic signs and symptoms following a high-energy 
impact mechanism of injury or any reported head impact. 
Have a high index of suspicion for TBI in young children 
(age < 5 years) or older adults (age > 65 years) with 
significant head impact following a low-level fall or concern 
for nonaccidental trauma. Preferentially triage children to 
pediatric-capable centers.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 6 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
6
Closely monitor patients in the prehospital setting with 
appropriate equipment to assess blood pressure, pulse 
oximetry, end-tidal CO2, and temperature. Perform frequent 
serial assessments of the GCS, and note changes. It is 
important to document and communicate the individual 
components of the GCS, especially the motor score.
Providing initial resuscitative care in hospitals without 
neurosurgical care may occasionally be rationalized in 
rural settings with long transport times. However, these 
hospitals need predefined air/ground transfer protocols and 
agreements in place to provide for the immediate transfer 
of patients to a center that has the continuous availability 
of resources and expertise to care for all aspects of TBI. 
This is critical for patients with an abnormal neurological 
exam, displaced skull fracture, or significant intracranial 
injury such as a large subdural hematoma (SDH), epidural 
hematoma (EDH), intraparenchymal hemorrhage (IPH), or 
intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH).
Older Adult Considerations 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
recommends that injured older adults be triaged to 
trauma centers when possible. Factors that can affect 
prehospital triage accuracy with older adults include the 
following: major trauma resulting from low-energy impact 
mechanisms (low-level falls) not captured by the current 
triage tools, polypharmacy, age-related physiological 
responses to injuries, frailty, and anticoagulant and 
antiplatelet medication use. Comorbidities that may also 
be factors in prehospital triage accuracy include dementia, 
cerebral atrophy permitting accumulation of (initially) 
asymptomatic traumatic hemorrhage, co-occurring stroke 
or syncope (which may have preceded head trauma), and 
presence of other chronic organ insufficiencies.2,3 


--- Page 7 (LEFT) ---
Pediatric Considerations
Pediatric patients with presumed clinically important 
injuries are, ideally, transported to a pediatric trauma 
center or other trauma center with pediatric capabilities. 
Transfer to pediatric trauma centers may be unnecessary 
for a subset of pediatric patients with the following low-risk 
injuries:
 
• Low-energy blunt trauma
 
• No concern for nonaccidental mechanism
 
• Low risk based on pediatric minor head injury computed 
tomography (CT) guidelines published by the Pediatric 
Emergency Care Applied Research Network (PECARN)4
 
• Negative imaging
 
• Imaging with isolated, nondisplaced skull fractures 
without other intracranial injuries
Note: The development of pediatric-specific 
guidelines is a vital component of pediatric 
care. For additional guidance on pediatric 
prehospital and interfacility tool kits, visit the 
website of the United States Health Resources 
and Services Administration (HRSA) Emergency 
Medical Services for Children program: https://
emscimprovement.center/education-and-
resources/toolkits/.

BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 7 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
7


--- Page 8 (LEFT) ---
BASIC ASSESSMENT
KEY POINTS
 
• The GCS provides for the reliable assessment of level of 
consciousness. It requires a standardized assessment 
and reporting approach to assure reliability, accurate 
patient status communication between healthcare 
providers, and recording of changes over time.
 
• Assess and report each of the three GCS components 
(eye, verbal, and motor) for individual patients. Use 
GCS sum scores (e.g., 3–15) for patient group-level 
comparisons and injury classification.
 
• The pupillary light response provides diagnostic and 
prognostic information in patients with TBI.
 
• Quantitative pupillometry is a useful tool that provides 
more reliable and reproducible measurements than 
standard clinical assessment of pupillary reactivity.
Basic assessment of a patient with TBI in the ED and 
hospital is essential to prioritize diagnostic and therapeutic 
interventions and to allow appropriate detection of changes 
in the patient’s clinical condition. This assessment may 
prompt repeat CT, therapeutic interventions, and other 
strategies to lessen secondary brain injury. 
In the ED, initial assessment follows the principles of the 
Advanced Trauma Life Support® (ATLS®) program and 
includes a brief evaluation of level of consciousness (via 
GCS), pupillary reactivity, and signs of lateralization.1 
Dependent on treatment priorities, a more extensive 
neurologic examination follows, with an additional focus 
on the presence of scalp lacerations, signs of penetrating 
injury, and clinical signs of basilar or depressed skull 
fractures. Throughout the subsequent clinical course, the 
level of consciousness is monitored, with the GCS and 
pupillary reactivity as the main pillars of basic clinical 
neuromonitoring. Clinical neuromonitoring with repeat 
CT scanning is the main component of the Consensus-
Revised Imaging and Clinical Examination (CREVICE) 
protocol, which is advocated for in settings in which more 
advanced neuromonitoring—including intracranial pressure 
(ICP) monitoring—is not available.2 The vulnerability of 
the injured brain to physiological insults makes continued 
assessment and optimization of blood pressure and gas 
exchange critical, in addition to neurological monitoring. 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 8 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
8
Assessing the Level of Consciousness: GCS 
and Other Tools
The GCS is an internationally recognized tool with 
demonstrated reliability to assess the level of consciousness 
across all brain injury severity levels.1,3,4 The GCS scores 
patient responses in three domains: eye, verbal, and motor. 
For preverbal children (0–2 years), the pediatric GCS 
demonstrates greater reliability.3,5,6 See Table 1 for GCS 
tools. In older adults, the verbal component of the GCS may 
be confounded by preexisting conditions such as delirium, 
dementia, and aphasia. The component that is most 
associated with long-term outcomes is the motor score.
The GCS can be used during all phases of patient care. 
Adopt a standardized approach for both assessment and 
reporting to ensure reliable patient assessment over time 
and for accurate communication between healthcare 
professionals. Complete a baseline assessment as soon as 
possible, after imminent threats to life are managed. 
When used in individual patients, assess and document 
each of the GCS component scores (e.g., Eye 4, Verbal 
4, Motor 6). Each GCS component score provides 
complementary information with differential relevance 
across injury severities.7 The eye and verbal component 
scores are more discriminating in patients with less severe 
brain injuries. For the assessment of more severe brain 
injuries, the motor score is more relevant. Use this sequence 
when assessing the GCS: 
 
• Observe and record spontaneous patient activities and 
responses prior to the application of any stimulus. 
 
• Provide verbal stimuli while observing for eye opening, 
verbal, or upper extremity motor responses. Note: 
Document only the reactions of the best arm, not the 
legs. 
 
• Use another stimulus to elicit a response (e.g., fingertip 
pressure, supra-orbital pressure, trapezius pinch) if the 
patient has no response to verbal stimuli. Document 
the type of stimulus applied (i.e., central or peripheral), 
and then use this stimulus as a standard for future 
assessments.
The individual component scores of the GCS may be 
summed to provide a useful measure for overall injury 
classification, prognosis estimation (in conjunction with 
other factors), and patient group-level comparisons. 



--- Page 9 (LEFT) ---
Table 1. Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS): Standard and Pediatric Versions
Standard Version
Pediatric Version (pGCS)
 Best Eye Response (E)
 Best Eye Response (E)
None
1
No eye opening
1
To pressure
2
Eye opening to pain
2
To sound
3
Eye opening to speech
3
Spontaneous
4
Eye opening spontaneously
4
Untestable
Reason:
Untestable
Reason:
 Best Verbal Response (V)
 Best Verbal Response (V)
None
1
No verbal response
1
Sounds
2
Inconsolable, agitated
2
Words
3
Inconsistently inconsolable, 
moaning
Confused
4
Cries but consolable, inappropriate 
interactions
Oriented
5
Smiles, oriented to sounds, follows 
objects, interacts
Untestable
Reason:
Untestable
Reason:
 Best Motor Response (M)
 Best Motor Response (M)
None
1
No motor response
1
Extension
2
Extension to pain (decerebrate 
response)
Abnormal flexion
3
Abnormal flexion to pain for an 
infant (decorticate response)
Normal flexion (withdrawal)
4
Infant withdraws from pain
4
Localizing
5
Infant withdraws from touch
5
Obeys commands
6
Infant moves spontaneously or 
purposefully
Untestable
Reason:
Untestable
Reason:
Data from: Teasdale G, Jennett B. Assessment of coma and impaired consciousness. A practical scale. Lancet. 1974 Jul 13;2(7872):81–84. 
doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(74)91639-0; Teasdale G, Maas A, Lecky F, Manley G, Stocchetti N, Murray G. The Glasgow Coma Scale at 
40 years: Standing the test of time. Lancet Neurol. 2014 Aug;13(8):844–854. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(14)70120-6; Holmes JF, Palchak 
MJ, MacFarlane T, Kuppermann N. Performance of the pediatric Glasgow Coma Scale in children with blunt head trauma. Acad Emerg 
Med. 2005 Sep;12(9):814–819. doi: 10.1197/j.aem.2005.04.019; Borgialli DA, Mahajan P, Hoyle JD Jr, et al. Performance of the pediatric 
Glasgow Coma Scale score in the evaluation of children with blunt head trauma. Acad Emerg Med. 2016 Aug;23(8):878–884. doi: 10.1111/
acem.13014.
The GCS sum score is often used to stratify degrees of 
brain injury: a sum score ≥ 13 correlates with mild injury, a 
sum score 9–12 is consistent with moderate injury, and a 
sum score ≤ 8 is indicative of severe brain injury. Caution: 
Recognize that injury severity classification using only 
the GCS sum score represents  an overly simplistic and 
unidimensional approximation of injury load.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 9 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
9
Posttraumatic Amnesia: Posttraumatic amnesia (PTA) 
is widely used as an indicator of injury severity, but it can 
be difficult to assess in many patients early after injury. It 
is a more relevant assessment for rehabilitation settings. 
The Full Outline of UnResponsiveness (FOUR) score8 
was developed primarily for use in patients with impaired 
consciousness in the intensive care unit (ICU) setting. 


--- Page 10 (LEFT) ---
It includes the eye and motor components of the GCS, 
as well as brainstem reflexes and respiration. The verbal 
component of the GCS was omitted because intubation and 
ventilation make it untestable. Among pediatric patients, 
the FOUR score displays good inter-rater reliability among 
physicians and nurses.8 The FOUR score provides greater 
neurologic detail than the GCS in patients with more severe 
impairments of consciousness, and it is applicable in 
patients with locked-in syndrome.8 The GCS is applicable 
across patients of all injury severities and remains the 
preferred tool for general use to assess and monitor level of 
consciousness in the ICU.
Pupillary Reactivity and Pupillometry
The pupillary light response is an important element of 
the neurologic exam because it provides useful diagnostic 
and prognostic information. Some degree of pupillary 
asymmetry may be normal, but the development of new 
pupillary asymmetry can indicate compression of the 
brainstem with impending uncal herniation, triggering 
the need for further evaluation and intervention. In uncal 
herniation, the parasympathetic fibers on the surface of 
the third cranial nerve are compressed, leading to a slowly 
reactive—or eventually unreactive—pupil. A unilateral 
unreactive pupil is consistent with an ipsilateral mass lesion, 
while bilaterally fixed and dilated pupils portend a poor 
overall prognosis for functional recovery. 
Older Adults: In older adults, evaluation of the pupillary 
response may be confounded by preexisting chronic 
ophthalmic diseases (e.g., glaucoma or cataract disease). 
Quantitative pupillometry may be of limited value in 
patients with postsurgical pupils (i.e., after cataract 
surgery), however, this does not influence pupillary light 
reflex parameters measured by automated pupillometry.9,10 
In these patients, a medical history is essential to correctly 
interpret physical examination findings such as an abnormal 
pupillary light reflex, anisocoria, or oculomotor palsy. 
Quantitative Pupillometry: Both the inter-rater and intra-
rater reliability of the standard clinical determination of 
pupillary size and reactivity are relatively poor. Quantitative 
pupillometers provide increased reliability and consistency 
of pupillary measurements.11–13 The quantitative pupillometer 
is a small handheld device that uses both visible and 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 10 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
10
infrared light to measure a pupil, capture its response to 
a light stimulus, and quantify the pupil’s characteristics. It 
has six items measured (see Box 1). In pediatric patients, 
however, developmental changes in myelination during 
infancy can alter the normal latency observed, potentially 
limiting the application of a priori thresholds.14,15 
Box 1. Output from Quantitative Pupillometer
 
• Starting diameter (mm)
 
• Ending diameter (mm)
 
• % Change
 
• Latency (s)
 
• Average constriction velocity (mm/s)
 
• Average dilation velocity (mm/s)
Clinical experience shows that quantitative pupillometry 
can facilitate a more accurate clinical assessment by 
providing an objective and reliable assessment of pupillary 
reactivity. Pupillary changes may be detected before 
a provider’s clinical assessment of pupillary size and 
reactivity, thus providing an early warning sign. Quantitative 
pupillometry can assess reactivity even when opioids and 
other drugs result in small pupils, which make clinical 
assessment difficult. Moreover, the pupillometry output 
can be directly entered into the patient’s electronic medical 
record.

BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 11 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
11


--- Page 12 (LEFT) ---
IMAGING
KEY POINTS
 
• A head CT scan is needed for adult trauma patients with 
an external-force injury mechanism to the head, who 
present with altered mental status, loss of consciousness 
(LOC), PTA, or focal neurologic deficit.
 
• Determine indications for head CT in children using a 
validated decision rule such as the PECARN decision 
guide.
 
• A negative head CT does not rule out a TBI.
 
• Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is more sensitive 
than CT for identification of traumatic intracranial injury.
 
• Traumatic intracranial findings on CT and MRI inform 
prognosis.
Initial Imaging
Head CT is the cornerstone of acute imaging in TBI because 
of its high sensitivity and specificity for identification of 
acute intracranial injury, as well as craniofacial and cervical 
spine fractures. A head CT can be acquired much more 
quickly than an MRI, with total image acquisition time 

< 5 seconds using modern multi-slice CT scanners, a major 
advantage for agitated patients, polytrauma patients, and 
young children.1 Head CT without contrast also has no 
contraindications, unlike MRI (e.g., metallic foreign body 
or implant), which requires a time-consuming screening 
process. For head CT, axial, coronal, and sagittal images 
of the brain with 2.0 mm to 3.75 mm slice thickness are 
recommended, in addition to 0.5 mm to 1.25 mm “bone-
algorithm” images to improve the visibility of craniofacial 
fractures.
Guidelines for Imaging 
A number of guidelines and clinical decision rules provide 
indications for head CT in patients with suspected TBI.2–5 
The CDC/American College of Emergency Physicians 
(ACEP) clinical policy strikes a balance between sensitivity 
and specificity and recommends a non-contrast head CT in 
patients 16 years of age and older with LOC or PTA, if any of 
the following are also present:2 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 12 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
12
 
• GCS less than 15 
 
• Age greater than 60 years 
 
• Physical evidence of trauma above the clavicle 
 
• Coagulopathy (supra-therapeutic international 
normalized ratio [INR] or thrombocytopenia) 
 
• Headache 
 
• Vomiting 
 
• Drug or alcohol intoxication 
 
• Short-term memory deficit 
 
• Posttraumatic seizure 
 
• Focal neurologic deficit 
In addition, consider a head CT for patients with no LOC or 
PTA in the following cases: GCS less than 15, age 65 years 
and older, coagulopathy, focal neurologic deficit, severe 
headache, vomiting, physical signs of basilar skull fracture, 
or dangerous mechanism of injury (e.g., ejection from 
motor vehicle, pedestrian struck by motor vehicle, fall down 
five stairs or 3 feet or more).2 Comparable guidelines are 
published in the sports concussion literature and contain 
very similar criteria.6–8 
Older Adult Considerations
Guidance for imaging in older adult patients with suspicion 
of TBI is similar to that used in younger adults. The use of 
anticoagulants in many older patients may complicate the 
recommended indications for imaging. In patients who are 
anticoagulated, the incidence of intracranial hemorrhage 
(ICH) is higher; therefore, a more liberal use of early CT 
scanning may be appropriate.9 Given that current guidelines 
also recommend imaging based on older age, blood-based 
biomarkers may be helpful in identifying older patients with 
GCS 13–15 who do not need CT imaging (refer to the Blood-
Based Biomarkers section on page 15). 
Pediatric Considerations
For children with acute TBI requiring emergent imaging, 
CT is often the first choice because it is rapid, widely 
available, and might not require sedation. However, use 
CT judiciously, due to the greater vulnerability of children 
to radiation-induced malignancy.10,11 In order to mitigate 
the risks of radiation to the developing brain, some trauma 
centers are performing rapid MRI as first-line imaging 
in nonsedated infants and young children.11–13 Regardless 


--- Page 13 (LEFT) ---
of which imaging methodology is used, indications for 
emergent head imaging in children need to follow a 
validated pediatric decision rule such as the PECARN 
decision guide. For select pediatric patients with GCS 15, 
no palpable skull fracture, and no findings concerning for 
basilar skull fracture, a brief period of observation (4 to 6 
hours) may obviate the need for neuroimaging, even in the 
presence of 1 or 2 PECARN predictors of clinically important 
TBI.14 See also https://www.cdc.gov/traumatic-brain-injury/
hcp/clinical-guidance/?CDC_AAref_Val=https://www.cdc.
gov/traumaticbraininjury/PediatricmTBIGuideline.html.
CT and the Incidence and Prognostic 
Implications of Intracranial Injury
The incidence of intracranial injury found on initial head 
CT increases as GCS score decreases. More than 80% of 
patients with GCS 3–12 have evidence of intracranial injury.15 
The Rotterdam CT score uses traumatic intracranial CT 
imaging features (basal cistern effacement, midline shift, 
EDH, IVH, and subarachnoid hemorrhage) to determine a 
score (1 to 6) that is predictive of 6-month mortality related 
to TBI in patients with GCS 3–12. While the incidence of CT 
abnormalities in patients with GCS 13–15 is lower, certain 
features such as subarachnoid hemorrhage, contusion, and 
SDH are associated with incomplete recovery, and IVH and/
or petechial hemorrhage are associated with more severe 
impairment.16 
Clinical Role of MRI
MRI has superior sensitivity relative to CT for most acute 
intracranial findings, including small brain contusions, small 
extra-axial hematomas,17,18 and microhemorrhages and 
small white-matter lesions that represent acute traumatic 
axonal and/or microvascular injury. Several studies reported 
that more than 25% of patients with TBI presenting to 
Level 1 trauma centers with a negative initial head CT are 
determined to have intracranial injuries upon brain MRI.17 
Thus, a negative initial head CT does not rule out a TBI. 
The injuries identified on MRI predict disability in TBI.17,18 
In current clinical practice, brain MRI is used mainly for 
investigation of persistent concerns (e.g., unexplained  
alteration in consciousness in acute TBI, management of 
subacute TBI with persistent symptoms or deficits, and 
identification of intracranial injuries not detected by CT). 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 13 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
13
Include the following in the brain MRI protocol: T1, T2, T2 
fluid-attenuated inversion recovery, diffusion-weighted 
imaging/apparent diffusion coefficient, susceptibility-
weighted imaging (SWI) or, if unavailable, conventional T2*-
weighted gradient echo. SWI and T2*-weighted gradient 
echo sequences are very sensitive to blood products and 
greatly enhance the visibility of microhemorrhages that are 
often occult on CT.

--- Page 14 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
14


--- Page 15 (LEFT) ---
BLOOD-BASED BIOMARKERS
KEY POINTS
 
• Brain injury biomarkers such as glial fibrillary acidic 
protein (GFAP), ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 
(UCH-L1), and S100 calcium-binding protein (S100B) 
can be used to rule out the need for brain CT imaging 
for patients with suspected TBI who meet the following 
criteria: 
 
– GCS of 13–15 
 
– Clinical criteria for brain CT imaging based on brain 
CT imaging decision rules 
 
– The clinician assesses a low but nonzero risk for 
traumatic ICH
 
• The extent of GFAP, UCH-L1, and S100B elevation on 
the day of injury provides clinicians with an estimate 
of the underlying structural brain injury severity. These 
blood levels are also useful as adjuncts for predicting 
functional recovery at 6 months postinjury in patients 
with GCS 3–12 associated with TBI.
Characterizing and quantifying the severity of structural 
brain injury in acute TBI is critically important to inform 
treatment strategies and guide discussions about the 
patient’s expected prognosis. Until recently, the primary 
diagnostic resource for characterizing the severity of 
structural brain injury in acute TBI was the non-contrast 
brain CT scan. Brain CT is excellent for visualizing vascular 
structure injury, brain tissue edema, and the effect of 
injury on brain tissue deformation. Thus, the acute brain 
CT scan is key to identifying TBI patients requiring surgical 
management. However, the brain CT is limited in its ability 
to quantify injury to neurons and glial cells. As a result, a 
significant proportion of patients with a negative brain CT 
have persistent and debilitating neurologic and psychiatric 
symptoms that may persist for prolonged periods. 
Additionally, the diagnostic yield of brain CT scans is low. 
In the US, approximately 90% of the brain CTs performed 
each year during the acute evaluation for TBI are negative.1 
These patients are exposed to avoidable ionizing radiation, 
and the healthcare system absorbs increased cost and 
prolonged ED length of stay (LOS). 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 15 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
15
Biomarkers and Imaging Decisions
Two blood-based protein biomarkers, GFAP and UCH-L1, 
can be measured in patients (18 years or older) with a 
potential TBI to help rule out the need for a brain CT scan.2 
Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
authorized devices for the  rapid measurement of GFAP and 
UCH-L1 for routine clinical use.3,4 These include a point-
of-care device that can analyze blood samples collected 
by venipuncture and deliver test results in as little as 15 
minutes, as well as a lab-based test that offers results in 18 
minutes. Other devices with FDA clearance are expected in 
the near future.
S100B: S100B is a calcium-binding protein primarily found 
in glial cells. It is the most extensively studied brain injury 
biomarker for aiding in decision-making regarding brain 
CT imaging in patients evaluated for TBI. Similar to GFAP 
it is released into circulation following glial cell injury. It 
has excellent diagnostic sensitivity for identifying patients 
likely to have a positive CT, however, given its short half-
life, it is recommended to use this biomarker only when 
blood sampling can be performed within 6 hours of injury.5 
S100B is not FDA-cleared for routine clinical use in the 
US; however, it was incorporated into the Scandinavian 
guidelines for brain CT imaging in 2013. 
The Scandinavian guidelines recommend using S100B 
analysis in adult patients with mild head injury meeting the 
following criteria6:
 
• Less than 6 hours have elapsed following trauma, and
 
• EITHER GCS 14 and no risk factors (such as 
anticoagulant therapy or coagulation disorders, 
posttraumatic seizures, clinical signs of depressed or 
basal skull fracture, and focal neurological deficits) 
 
• OR GCS 15 with LOC or repeated vomiting (≥ 2) and no 
other risk factors.
If S100B is less than 0.10 mcg/L, the patient may be 
discharged without a brain CT.6
GFAP and UCH-L1: GFAP is an intermediate filament 
protein found predominantly in astrocytes, and UCH-L1 is 
an enzyme that neurons express in high abundance. These 
proteins are released into circulation when astrocytes and 
neurons are injured. UCH-L1 is detectable in blood within 
30 minutes of injury, peaks within 8 hours postinjury, and 
then decreases steadily. GFAP is released within 1 hour of 


--- Page 16 (LEFT) ---
injury, peaks at about 20 hours postinjury, and decreases 
subsequently. Prospective observational data from at least 
three large, multicenter studies (representing > 6,000 
patients in the US and Europe) demonstrated that the 
combination of day-of-injury GFAP and UCH-L1 values 
have an excellent negative predictive value for ruling out 
traumatic ICH (see Table 2).7-10
Table 2. Summary of Observational Data from Prospective Studies
1st Author
Assay
Cutoff
AUC
N (%pos)
Sensitivity
Specificity
PPV
NPV
Banyan 
GFAP = 22 pg/mL
UCH-L1 = 327 pg/mL
Not available
1977 
(66%)
Bazarian7
Bazarian8
iSTAT 
GFAP = 30 pg/mL
UCH-L1 = 360 pg/mL
Not available
1936 
(62%)
Okonkwo9
iSTAT 
GFAP = 37.8 pg/mL
0.85 (0.83–0.87)
1359 
(78%)
Czeiter10
SIMOA
Not available
0.89 (0.87–0.90)
2867
No cutoffs examined.
Key: AUC =area under to ROC curve; PPV = positive predictive value; NPV = negative predictive value.
For the FDA-approved iSTAT assay, GFAP values less than 
30 pg/mL and UCH-L1 values less than 360 pg/mL are 
considered not elevated, ruling out the need for a brain CT. 
If either biomarker exceeds its cutoff value (i.e., an elevated 
test), a brain CT is indicated. However, an elevated test 
does not definitively indicate a brain CT will be positive. A 
brain CT may be negative even in cases where structural 
brain injury is present, as some injuries might only be 
detectable on a brain MRI.11 Current FDA clearance requires 
measurement of these biomarkers on whole blood within 24 
hours of injury. GFAP levels also add incremental diagnostic 
information to existing head CT decision rules that leverage 
clinical data.10
Biomarkers and Functional Recovery
Biomarker blood levels can inform the prediction of a 
patient’s functional recovery.12-14 Higher biomarker levels 
are associated with worse structural brain injury and 
portend a worse prognosis. One study compared patients 
with day-of-injury iSTAT GFAP values < 1200 pg/mL to 
those with values > 12,000 pg/mL; patients with values 
> 12,000 pg/mL had a 6.98 times higher risk of mortality 
within 6 months.12 Similarly, patients with day-of-injury 
iSTAT UCH-L1 values > 2000 pg/mL were reported to have 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 16 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
16
97.6% 
36.4% 
9.5% 
99.6%
95.8%
40.4%
9.8%
99.3%
96.4%
30.3%
38.9%
94.9%
a 22.38 times higher risk of mortality within 6 months, 
compared to patients with day-of-injury iSTAT UCH-L1 
values < 360 pg/mL.12 The majority of these patient deaths 
occurred during the first month postinjury. Among patients 
with GCS 3–12 TBI, these biomarkers also have a high 
discriminative ability for distinguishing between patients 
more likely to function independently outside the home 
(Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended [GOS-E] > 4) versus 
those who are not (C-statistic 0.89; 95% confidence 
interval [CI] 0.86–0.91).12
Note: These biomarkers alone do not predict 
functional recovery in GCS 13–15 TBI with sufficient 
accuracy. However, GCS 15 patients with significantly 
elevated GFAP and/or UCH-L1 levels are at risk for 
protracted recovery and warrant referral to a brain 
injury/concussion clinic for further management. 
Patients with nonelevated GFAP and UCH-L1 values 
may also be at risk for protracted recovery, though 
their risk is much lower than patients with elevated 
GFAP and/or UCH-L1. Therefore, counsel these 
patients with recommendations to seek care if they 
have persistent symptoms.


--- Page 17 (LEFT) ---
Older Adult Considerations
Increasing age and age-related neurodegenerative disease 
(e.g., Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias) are 
associated with higher baseline levels of brain injury 
biomarkers, including GFAP and UCH-L1.15-17 This results 
in a smaller range within which acute brain injury may 
be discriminated. It raises the possibility that age- and/
or comorbidity-specific cutoff values may be useful 
for reducing unnecessary head CTs in older adults, as 
demonstrated for S100B (measured within 3 hours of 
injury).17 Several large cohort studies investigated sensitivity 
and specificity of plasma GFAP and UCH-L1 assays, and/
or S100B assays, in older adult TBI.17-19 Studies pertaining to 
FDA-approved GFAP and UCH-L1 assays are summarized in 
Table 3.17,19
Table 3. Diagnostic Accuracy of Blood GFAP and UCH-L1 Assays among Older Adults (> 65 Years Old) for Discriminating CT-
positive from CT-negative TBI on the Day of Injury
1st Author
Assay
Cutoff
AUC
N (%pos)
Sensitivity
Specificity
PPV
NPV
Ward19
Banyan Brain 
Trauma Indicator
(< 12 h postinjury)
GFAP 22 pg/mL
UCH-L1 327 pg/mL
Not available
504 (9%)
100% (< 12 h)
13% (< 12 h)
10% (< 12 h)
100% (< 12 h)
Gardner 17
iSTAT GFAP
(< 24 h 
postinjury) 
30 pg/mL
0.84 (0.78–
0.89)
Gardner 17
iSTAT UCH-L1 
(< 24 h 
postinjury)
360 pg/mL
0.56 (< 24 h)
 
Subgroups: 
0.68 (< 6 h)
0.60 (7–12 h)
Key: AUC =area under to ROC curve; PPV = positive predictive value; NPV = negative predictive value.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 17 (RIGHT) ---
ASSESSMENT
17
Pediatric Considerations
Current research suggests that blood biomarkers are 
associated with intracranial injury in children. However, 
insufficient data exist regarding the utility of GFAP, 
UCH-L1, or S100B measurements in pediatric patients with 
suspected TBI. At this time, clinical decision rules guiding 
the use of CT neuroimaging, such as the PECARN rule, are 
the best tools available to aid in the evaluation of TBI in 
children following head injury.20-22
240 (71%)
100% (< 24 h)
10% (< 24 h)
73% (< 24 h)
100% (< 24 h)
240 (71%)
 
Subgroups: 
N(%) not 
available
37% (< 24 h)
 
Subgroups:
63% (< 6 h)
43% (7–12 h)
71% (< 24 h)
 
Subgroups:
58% (< 6 h)
69% (7–12 h)
76% (< 24 h)
 
Subgroups:
39% (< 6 h)
75% (7–12 h)
31% (< 24 h)
 
Subgroups:
79% (< 6 h)
36% (7–12 h)


--- Page 18 (LEFT) ---

--- Page 19 (LEFT) ---
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
THE MANAGEMENT OF 
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
PATIENT 
MANAGEMENT
--- Page 19 (RIGHT) ---


--- Page 20 (LEFT) ---
GOALS OF DIRECTED CARE
KEY POINT
 
• Ideally, it is recommended to keep clinical parameters 
within normal physiologic ranges for patients with 
TBI, after considering potential risks and benefits of 
intervention.
A cornerstone of effective goal-directed treatment for 
TBI is aiming to maintain clinical parameters within 
normal physiological ranges. Some of these parameters 
are more relevant for patients in the ICU setting—such 
as cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP), ICP, and partial 
brain tissue oxygenation (PbtO2)—while others, such as 
oxygen saturation (SpO2), are applicable to all patients. 
Interventions to achieve desired parameters are best 
provided within the overall context of the patient’s 
condition. When achieving clinical parameter goals require 
intensive therapy, carefully consider the potential risks 
and benefits of each intervention. The recommended 
parameters for goal-directed treatment in Table 4 represent 
ideal ranges rather than mandatory, at-all-costs goals for all 
scenarios. 
Table 4. Goals of Treatment Recommended Parameters
Parameter
Goal Range
Pulse oximetry
≥ 94%
PaO2
80–100 mm Hg
PaCO2
35–45 mm Hg
Systolic blood pressure
≥ 100 mm Hg
ICP
< 22 mm Hg
PbtO2
≥ 15 mm Hg
CPP*
60–70 mm Hg
Serum sodium
135–145 mEq/L
Serum osmolality
≤ 320 mOsm
INR
≤ 1.4
Temperature
36.0–37.9°C
Platelets
≥ 75 × 103 /mm3
pH
7.35–7.45
Glucose
100–180 mg/dL
Hemoglobin
≥ 7 g/dL
*Depending on status of cerebral autoregulation 
Key: PaO2: partial pressure of oxygen; PaCO2: partial pressure of carbon 
dioxide; ICP: intracranial pressure; PbtO2: partial brain tissue oxygenation; 
CPP: cerebral perfusion pressure; INR: international normalized ratio.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 20 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
20
An ICP of 22 mm Hg is a useful initial threshold for 
treatment. However, when the risk/benefit of advancing 
treatment becomes a concern, such as for therapy with 
significant hazards (e.g., decompressive craniectomy), 
consider a treatment range of 20–25 mm Hg. A CPP of ≥ 60 
mm Hg is a practical target, adjusted as needed, based on 
cerebral autoregulation status. A PbtO2 value of ≥ 15 mm Hg 
is recommended, if monitored.
Initial oxygenation targets include SpO2 ≥ 94% and PaO2 
of 80–100 mm Hg. Given concerns about the hazards of 
hyperoxia, avoid PaO2 > 100 mm Hg, unless guided by brain 
oximetry. PaCO2 of 35–45 mm Hg and pH of 7.35–7.45 are 
recommended initial targets in the absence of intracranial 
hypertension. Patients with significant pulmonary 
issues (e.g., acute respiratory distress syndrome) 
may require lung-specific targets, such as permissive 
hypercapnia, based on their clinical condition while 
controlling ICP elevation using other interventions.
Vital Signs
Closely monitor systolic blood pressure (SBP) and mean 
arterial pressure (MAP) to avoid hypotension. Providing 
treatment targeting SBP ≥ 110 mm Hg/MAP > 80 mm Hg 
will allow adequate cerebral perfusion in most cases when 
ICP is not being monitored.1 While no clear cutoff exists 
for blood pressure, the probability of mortality increases 
linearly with every 10-point drop of SBP below 119 mm Hg 
in patients with TBI, suggesting that higher targets may be 
indicated than previously recognized.2
The target for temperature management is maintenance of 
normothermia (36–37.9°C). Treat fever aggressively.
Electrolyte Management
Electrolyte management is essential, with specific 
emphasis on maintaining sodium levels within the range 
of 135–145 mEq/L. Preventing hyponatremia is critical to 
avoid exacerbation of cerebral edema. Frequent monitoring 
of serum sodium levels may be necessary, because TBI 
patients can develop conditions such as diabetes insipidus 
or the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone /
cerebral salt wasting syndrome. Measure osmolality when 
mannitol is used as an osmotic agent.


--- Page 21 (LEFT) ---
Hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia may each have 
detrimental effects on patient outcomes. Closely monitor 
serum glucose levels, with a target range of 100–180 mg/
dL. More frequent monitoring may be appropriate upon 
initiation of nutritional support, particularly in patients with 
confirmed or suspected diabetes mellitus.
Hematology Monitoring
Hematology monitoring is essential in patients with TBI. 
Although recommendations for hemoglobin transfusion 
thresholds vary somewhat, the current literature and expert 
consensus suggest a transfusion threshold of ≥ 7 g/dL.3,4
Early evaluation for coagulopathy is important for 
patients with TBI. Assessment of direct and indirect 
coagulation cascades using INR is essential (a target 
INR ≤ 1.4 is appropriate in most cases). Utilization of 
thromboelastography (TEG), rotational thromboelastometry 
(ROTEM), and platelet function assays may provide 
additional information regarding the need for targeted 
therapy to reverse coagulopathy.

BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 21 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
21


--- Page 22 (LEFT) ---
INTRACRANIAL PRESSURE 
MONITORING
KEY POINTS
 
• ICP monitoring is important, but it does not replace 
careful serial neurological and radiographic examination 
of the patient with TBI. 
 
• ICP monitoring is recommended in comatose patients 
(GCS ≤ 8) when evidence of structural brain damage is 
seen on initial CT imaging. 
 
• The gold standard for ICP measurement is an external 
ventricular drain (EVD) attached to an external strain-
gauge transducer, as this has both diagnostic and 
therapeutic value. An intraparenchymal transducer can 
also be used to monitor ICP.
 
• For pediatric patients, ICP monitoring by an EVD or 
an intraparenchymal transducer may result in similar 
clinical outcomes. Technical reasons to choose an 
intraparenchymal transducer may exist in specific cases, 
although an EVD may facilitate a lower ICP.
 
• For pediatric patients, the ICP target (the normal range 
of ICP, as a contributor to CPP) is lower than in adults. 
An upper limit of 20 mm Hg is recommended for 
children based on retrospective evidence, as outcomes 
were not improved by other limits.
Persistently elevated ICP is predictive of poor outcome. 
ICP monitoring is important because CPP, an important 
marker of cerebral blood flow (CBF), is derived from 
ICP (MAP – ICP = CPP). Augmenting the CPP can help 
restore cerebral perfusion and oxygen delivery. ICP 
monitoring can also provide warning of impending 
structural brain derangements (e.g., contusion/hematoma 
progression, increased cerebral edema, and postoperative 
complications). 
ICP monitoring is recommended in comatose patients (GCS 
≤ 8) if evidence of structural brain damage is seen on initial 
CT imaging. ICP monitoring should be carefully considered 
for other patients:
 
• Patients with a GCS > 8 who have structural brain 
damage and high risk for progression (e.g., large/
multiple contusions)
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 22 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
22
 
• Patients with a GCS > 8 when knowing the ICP might 
facilitate management of other issues (e.g., allowing 
earlier surgery for orthopaedic injuries or application of 
treatments that can potentially increase ICP like prone 
positioning for acute respiratory failure)
 
• Patients with evidence of pathology progression on CT 
imaging or clinical deterioration
 
• Patients who require urgent surgery for extracranial 
injuries or sedation to facilitate mechanical ventilation 
because of airway compromise or respiratory failure. 
ICP monitoring is generally not indicated in comatose 
patients without evidence of structural brain damage or 
of elevated ICP on initial CT imaging (e.g., compressed or 
absent basal cisterns). These patients may continue to be 
observed without ICP monitoring by neurological exams and 
serial CT imaging.
ICP Monitoring Role in Patient 
Management
Identification of elevated ICP can prompt further imaging, 
pharmacologic intervention, and definitive operative 
management. Knowing that ICP elevation is absent can 
also allow for de-escalation of care (e.g., early surgery for 
extracranial injuries, decreasing sedation, extubation, etc.). 
When instituted, it is important to continue ICP monitoring 
for patients transported out of the ICU for extracranial 
surgery, imaging, or special procedures.
ICP monitoring remains a critical component in the 
management of severe TBI. However, studies highlight the 
need to better define how ICP monitoring is used in the 
treatment of TBI. In the largest study of ICP monitoring to 
date, observational data from hospitals participating in the 
ACS TQIP demonstrated that use of ICP monitoring was 
associated with lower in-hospital mortality.1 Worldwide, 
the use of ICP monitoring and management varies greatly 
across hospitals and countries. A large, international, 
prospective observational cohort study of ICP monitoring 
(SYNAPSE-ICU) demonstrated that ICP monitoring is 
associated with a more intensive therapeutic approach 
and with lower 6-month mortality in more severe cases.2 
Intracranial hypertension treatment guided by monitoring 
might be considered in severe TBI due to the potential 
associated improvement in long-term clinical results.


--- Page 23 (LEFT) ---
A South American randomized controlled trial (RCT) 
compared patient treatment using ICP monitoring to 
maintain ICP ≤ 20 mm Hg to patient treatment based 
upon imaging and neurological examination.3 Although 
no difference in outcomes was found between the 
study groups, the result did not support discontinuation 
of ICP monitoring in the treatment of TBI. Rather, it 
demonstrated the importance of aggressive treatment 
using ICP monitoring or, alternatively, frequent clinical 
and radiographic examination to identify intracranial 
hypertension.4 The findings of this study also challenge 
the currently accepted rigid ICP alert threshold used for 
all patients. The currently accepted alert threshold is an 
ICP of 22 mm Hg, with a reasonable range of 20–25 mm 
Hg for more than 5 minutes, as a trigger for treatment 
of intracranial hypertension; however, ongoing research 
suggests that this threshold is dependent upon individual 
patient factors such as injury type and severity. The ICP 
“dose,” reflecting both the magnitude and time of exposure 
to intracranial hypertension, might be more important 
than a fixed ICP treatment threshold. Higher ICP dose is 
associated with worse outcomes over the entire Glasgow 
Outcome Scale (GOS) range, not only mortality.5 
Escalation of treatment for intracranial hypertension needs 
to be based on both the level and duration of ICP elevation. 
For example, the threshold for proceeding to higher-tier 
therapies such as decompressive craniectomy needs to be 
at a higher ICP threshold, or “dose,” as demonstrated by the 
RESCUE-ICP trial.6 A trend over time is more relevant than 
a momentary ICP value. Differentiate a gradual rise of ICP 
from short-term elevations due to events such as ventilator 
dyssynchrony or plateau waves. Interpret measured values 
of ICP in relation to arterial blood pressure, CPP, and 
autoregulatory responses (see the Neuromonitoring section 
on page 29). A clinical approach based on injury type and 
augmented by advanced neuromonitoring may lead to 
individualized treatment pathways. 
The gold standard for ICP measurement is an EVD attached 
to an external strain-gauge transducer. The monitor, 
centrally placed within the cerebral ventricles, can measure 
global ICP, and it offers the therapeutic advantage of 
draining cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to reduce intracranial 
volume. Intraparenchymal ICP monitoring is also a reliable 
method, but it does not allow for CSF drainage. Subdural 
and epidural monitors have been used, but these are not 
recommended due to lower accuracy.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 23 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
23
Older Adult Considerations
Despite recommendations for ICP monitoring in patients 
with severe TBI, the above recommendations may not 
always be applicable to older adults. Older adult patients 
have cerebral atrophy and may generally be at lower 
risk of intracranial hypertension. A few studies have 
specifically investigated the use of ICP monitoring in older 
adult patients with TBI. ICP monitoring rates in older 
adult patients range from 5% to 44%, depending on the 
population studied.7,8 Some observational studies on severe 
TBI reported lower mortality in patients older than 65 years 
who received ICP monitoring, while other studies concluded 
that ICP monitoring was associated with an unfavorable 
outcome (severe disability, vegetative, or death) in older 
adult patients.9-13 In a recent large observational study, the 
overall utilization of ICP monitoring in older adults meeting 
the Brain Trauma Foundation (BTF) criteria remained 
low across high-volume trauma centers. A mortality or 
functional benefit to ICP monitoring in older adults remains 
to be elucidated.14 
Pediatric Considerations
Pediatric consensus guidelines based on aggregate 
retrospective data suggest utility in monitoring ICP in 
children with severe TBI. Although limited pediatric studies 
report no improvement in functional survival or even 
showed increased morbidity and mortality, these studies 
were unable to control for critical differences between 
the groups with and without ICP monitoring. Recent 
retrospective data suggest that, compared to an EVD, an 
intraparenchymal pressure transducer may achieve similar 
long-term outcome measures. However, the therapeutic 
benefit of an EVD may contribute to slightly lower ICP 
during acute management.15 These data suggest that 
the choice of ICP monitoring technique should include 
consideration of the different risks and relative advantages 
of the two techniques relevant to the clinical scenario, such 
as age and other factors.
Normal CBF has age-dependent variability related to 
metabolic changes during different stages of brain 
development. Depending on the child’s age, this variability 
affects the relationship between cerebrovascular 
autoregulation, ICP, SBP, and CPP. Age-appropriate MAP, 
and therefore CPP, is lower in children than in adults. A 


--- Page 24 (LEFT) ---
narrower window of appropriate CPP and ICP may exist 
in children as compared to adults. CPP goals above 50 
mm Hg for patients aged 6 to 17 years, and above 40 mm 
Hg in children aged 0 to 5 years, seem to be appropriate 
targets for treatment-based studies.16 Studies in ICP targets 
among children may be limited by the use of 20 mm Hg as 
a priori target for treatments. Current literature does not 
report improved outcomes among children with specific 
ICP targets lower than 20 mm Hg, and further research is 
needed.


--- Page 25 (LEFT) ---
TIERED MANAGEMENT OF 
INTRACRANIAL PRESSURE
KEY POINTS
 
• ICP elevation is a key measurable secondary insult that 
providers must treat to prevent secondary brain damage 
following severe TBI.
 
• Rigorous, consensus-based algorithms, such as those 
from the Seattle International Severe Traumatic Brain 
Injury Consensus Conference (SIBICC), augment 
evidence-based guidelines by addressing gaps between 
the available evidence and necessities of patient care. 
 
• The SIBICC algorithms employ a three-tiered approach 
to therapy in which interventions with more favorable 
risk-benefit ratios generally are used before interventions 
with less favorable ratios. The tiered approach retains 
medical decision-making within tiers and supports 
targeting interventions at specific physiological 
disruptions, where suspected.
 
• Although derived through a rigorous, consensus-
based process, view the SIBICC algorithms as 
recommendations that offer the benefits inherent to care 
standardization. Do not consider the SIBICC algorithms 
as standards of practice. Optimally, these algorithms are 
reviewed by all relevant disciplines at a trauma center 
and approved or adapted for the local environment.
Without treatment, ICP elevation may rapidly become 
fatal, either because of transtentorial brain herniation and 
brainstem compression or due to critical CPP reduction 
leading to brain ischemia. In extreme situations, brain 
death ensues when elevated ICP prevents brain perfusion. 
Because of their accuracy, invasive monitors are currently 
preferred for the management of intracranial hypertension.
 
• ICP measurement can detect an expanding intracranial 
lesion and facilitate targeted treatment of intracranial 
hypertension. 
 
• It allows computation of CPP and calculation of 
cerebrovascular autoregulatory status. 
 
• The morphology of the ICP waveform can also provide 
input into cerebral compliance and compensatory 
reserve.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 25 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
25
Although implementation of evidence-based TBI guidelines 
is associated with marked improvement in outcome, these 
guidelines are restricted to what is available in the scientific 
literature. The Delphi-based consensus process is valuable 
to bridge gaps in evidence upon which treatment algorithms 
are based until formal evidence is generated. SIBICC used 
this rigorous consensus process to tap into the collective 
wisdom of experts and produce the first severe TBI 
management algorithms published in a generation.1,2 
The SIBICC algorithms are a suggestion for care, not a 
standard of care. They aim to be comprehensive, providing a 
consensus-based approach with the goals of standardizing 
care and minimizing treatment variability. The full SIBICC 
documents provide three-tiered algorithms and address the 
following:
 
• Management of ICP and ICP + low PbtO2 
 
• Interventions to be discouraged 
 
• A definition of clinical neurologic worsening and its 
management
 
• Recommendations for weaning therapy
Tiered Treatments
The SIBICC algorithms are organized into tiers, with 
treatments placed into individual tiers based on 
their relative risk-benefit ratios. Tier Zero represents 
interventions either expected or recommended for all 
patients with TBI admitted to the ICU, regardless of their 
ICP (e.g., basic ICU care). Tiers One, Two, and Three are 
directed at management of intracranial hypertension. 
Guidance for using tiered treatments is based on three 
principles:
 
• No ranked ordering of treatments exists within an 
individual tier
 
• It is not necessary to use all modalities in a lower tier 
before moving to the next tier
 
• If considered advantageous, tiers can be skipped 
when advancing treatment (e.g., early decompressive 
craniectomy)


--- Page 26 (LEFT) ---
The tiered approach provides structure while retaining 
medical decision-making within tiers. The variety of 
treatments within each tier also supports targeting 
interventions at specific physiological disruptions (targeted 
therapy). See Box 2 for Tier Zero treatment algorithms. 
See Box 3 for the ICP treatment algorithms for Tiers One, 
Two, and Three. Full descriptions of the SIBICC I protocol 
(ICP monitoring)2 and SIBICC II protocol (ICP plus PbtO2 
monitoring)1 are open access.
Box 2. Tier Zero—Basic ICU Care Interventions—SIBICC I 
Algorithm
Expected Interventions:
 
• Admission to ICU
 
• Endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation
 
• Serial evaluations of neurological status and 
pupillary reactivity
 
• Elevate head of bed 30–45° 
 
• Analgesia to manage signs of pain (not ICP directed)
 
• Sedation to prevent agitation, ventilator asynchrony, 
etc. (not ICP directed)
 
• Temperature management to prevent fever 
 
• Measure core temperature
 
• Treat core temperature above 38.0°C
 
• Consider prophylactic anti-seizure medications for 

1 week only (in the absence of indication to 
continue)
 
• Maintain CPP initially ≥ 60 mm Hg
 
• Maintain hemoglobin > 7 g/dL
 
• Avoid hyponatremia
 
• Optimize venous return from head (e.g., keep head 
midline, ensure cervical collars are not too tight)
 
• Arterial line for continuous blood pressure 
monitoring
 
• Maintain SpO2 ≥ 94%
Recommended Interventions:
 
• Insertion of a central line
 
• End-tidal CO2 monitoring
From: Hawryluk GW, Aguilera S, Buki A, et al. A management algorithm for 
patients with intracranial pressure monitoring: The Seattle International 
Severe Traumatic Brain Injury Consensus Conference (SIBICC). Intensive Care 
Med. 2019 Dec;45(12):1783–1794. doi: 10.1007/s00134-019-05805-9. Used 
with permission
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 26 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
26
Box 3. SIBICC I Tiers for ICP Treatment of Intracranial 
Hypertension for Patients with ICP Monitoring
Tier One
 
• Maintain CPP 60–70 mm Hg
 
• Increase analgesia to lower ICP
 
• Increase sedation to lower ICP
 
• Maintain PaCO2 at low end of normal (35–38 mm 
Hg/4.7–5.1 kPa)
 
• Administer mannitol by intermittent bolus 

(0.25–1.0 g/kg)*
 
• Administer hypertonic saline by intermittent bolus*
 
• Drain CSF if EVD is in situ
 
• Consider placement of EVD to drain CSF if 
parenchymal probe used initially
 
• Consider anti-seizure prophylaxis for 1 week only (in 
the absence of indication to continue)
 
• Consider electroencephalography (EEG) monitoring
Tier Two
 
• Maintain mild hypocapnia (32–35 mm Hg/4.3–4.6 
 
• Use neuromuscular paralysis in adequately sedated 
patients, if efficacious in lowering ICP**
 
• Perform a MAP Challenge† to assess cerebral 
autoregulation and guide MAP and CPP goals in 
individual patients (see page 29 in Neuromonitoring)
 
• Adjust the target MAP back to baseline (disrupted 
autoregulation) or to a new, elevated target to lower 
ICP (intact autoregulation)
Tier Three
 
• Administer pentobarbital or sodium thiopentone. 
The barbiturate coma is titrated to ICP control if it is 
efficacious on testing††
 
• Perform secondary decompressive craniectomy
 
• Maintain mild hypothermia (35–36°C) using active 
cooling measures
* Limits for sodium (155 mEq/L) and osmolality (320 mEq/L) are 
recommended for administration of either hypertonic saline or mannitol.
** It is recommended to begin with a trial dose of neuromuscular paralysis 
and only proceed to continuous infusion if efficacy is demonstrated.
† See MAP challenge protocol described in the open access papers, 
references 1 and 2.
†† Barbiturate administration is continued only when a beneficial effect on 
ICP is demonstrated. Titrate barbiturate to achieve ICP control, but do not 
exceed the dose that achieves burst suppression. Avoid hypotension when 
barbiturates are administered.
From: Hawryluk GW, Aguilera S, Buki A, et al. A management algorithm for 
patients with intracranial pressure monitoring: The Seattle International 
Severe Traumatic Brain Injury Consensus Conference (SIBICC). Intensive Care 
Med. 2019 Dec;45(12):1783–1794. doi: 10.1007/s00134-019-05805-9. Used 
with permission.


--- Page 27 (LEFT) ---
Treatments Not Recommended for 
Intracranial Hypertension in Severe TBI
The SIBICC working group lists treatments to be 
discouraged for management of patients with severe TBI. 
The group’s decision-making included both evidence against 
treatments (e.g., steroids, CPP > 70 mm Hg) and lack of 
sufficient supporting evidence (e.g., lumbar CSF drainage, 
scheduled infusion of hyperosmolar therapy). Inclusion in 
this list does not proscribe consideration in some individual 
cases. See Box 4.
Box 4. Treatments Not Recommended for Use in the 
Management of Intracranial Hypertension in Patients with 
Severe TBI
 
• Mannitol by non-bolus, continuous intravenous 
infusion
 
• Scheduled infusion of hyperosmolar therapy

 (e.g., every 4 to 6 hours)
 
• Lumbar CSF drainage
 
• Furosemide
 
• Routine use of steroids
 
• Routine therapeutic hypothermia to temperatures 
below 35°C due to systemic complications
 
• High dose propofol to attempt burst suppression 
 
• Routinely decreasing PaCO2 below 

30 mm Hg/4.0 kPa
 
• Routinely raising CPP above 90 mm Hg
From: Hawryluk GW, Aguilera S, Buki A, et al. A management algorithm 
for patients with intracranial pressure monitoring: The Seattle International 
Severe Traumatic Brain Injury Consensus Conference (SIBICC). Intensive Care 
Med. 2019 Dec;45(12):1783–1794. doi: 10.1007/s00134-019-05805-9. Used 
with permission.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 27 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
27
Inter-Tier Recommendations
An ancillary value of the tiered structure is that the tiers 
act as a proxy for treatment resistance (i.e., disease 
severity). The SIBICC working group formulated inter-
tier recommendations to be considered when advancing 
between tiers (see Figure 1). These recommendations 
are directed at ensuring that the baseline management 
parameters remain acceptable, that judgment calls 
(e.g., operability of cerebral contusions) do not need 
reassessment, and that treatable outside influences of 
ICP are not involved (e.g., intrathoracic or intra-abdominal 
pressures). This is also a good time to consider consultation 
or transfer, if such resources are available.
Older Adult Considerations
For ICP management in older adults, evaluate 
pharmacotherapeutic strategies for dosage adjustments 
to prevent toxicity and prolonged duration of action. 
Increased concentrations of active drugs may result from 
older adults’ physiologic responses, including decreases in 
volume distribution, protein binding with hypoalbuminemia, 
hepatic metabolism, and renal function. Comorbidities 
and preexisting conditions, such as dementia or stroke, as 
well as adverse effects of medication make the diagnosis 
and treatment goals more challenging as well. Older 
adult patients may also have slower recovery trajectories 
and worse outcomes, which can be mitigated through 
aggressive treatment and good preinjury health status.3–5
Pediatric Considerations
In 2019, the consensus guideline to manage severe TBI 
injury for children was updated by an interdisciplinary 
team.6 An accompanying algorithm of tiered therapy was 
included, similar to that of SIBICC, although condensed 
into two tiers.7 Minor variations in the tier classifications 
do not indicate evidence-based discrepancies. Note: 
These guidelines predate results from the Approaches and 
Decisions in Acute Pediatric TBI Trial (ADAPT).8
In a few instances, available evidence supports different 
approaches to the care of children with severe TBI. For 
example, evidence supports the use of hypertonic 3% 
saline boluses, either 2 to 5 mL/kg over 10 to 20 min 
or at a constant rate of 0.1–1 mL/kg/hour, or a 23.4% 


--- Page 28 (LEFT) ---
Figure 1. Inter-Tier Recommendations
Tier One treatment of
intracranial hypertension
 
• Reexamine the patient and consider repeating CT 

to reevaluate intracranial pathology
 
• Reconsider surgical options for potentially surgical 
Inter-Tier
Recommendations
lesions
 
• Consider extracranial causes of ICP elevation (e.g., 
intrathoracic or intra-abdominal pressure)
Tier Two treatment of
intracranial hypertension
 
• Review basic physiologic parameters to confirm they 
are in the desired range (e.g., CPP, blood gas values, 
etc.)
Inter-Tier
Recommendations
 
• Consider consultation with a higher level of care, 

if applicable for your health care system
Tier Three treatment of
intracranial hypertension
From: Hawryluk GW, Aguilera S, Buki A, et al. A management algorithm for patients with intracranial pressure monitoring: The Seattle International Severe 
Traumatic Brain Injury Consensus Conference (SIBICC). Intensive Care Med. 2019 Dec;45(12):1783–1794. doi: 10.1007/s00134-019-05805-9. Used with 
permission.
concentration at 0.5 mL/kg (up to 30 mL) over 10 to 20 
minutes. Less evidence supports the use of mannitol.7 
Additionally, a lower hypoventilation target of 28 to 34 
mm Hg is recommended in the Tier Two interventions.7 
Moderate prophylactic hypothermia (32–33°C) is not 
recommended over normothermia to improve overall 
outcomes, but it is suggested for ICP control.6,7


--- Page 29 (LEFT) ---
NEUROMONITORING
KEY POINTS
 
• Serial clinical assessment of neurological status 
in regular intervals provides the foundation of 
neuromonitoring in TBI patients.
 
• Neuromonitoring, beyond monitoring of ICP in isolation, 
can help establish individualized patient care goals and 
therapy.
 
• Assessment of cerebral autoregulation can help 
establish CPP goals in individual patients. Consider 
performing neuromonitoring in patients who do not 
respond to initial (Tier One) therapies to decrease ICP.
 
• Impaired cerebral oxygenation can occur with both 
normal or increased ICP. Consider treatment of brain 
tissue hypoxia based on the underlying pathophysiology 
and a tiered approach of escalating therapies.
 
• Continuous electroencephalography (EEG) assists 
in seizure detection and management, especially for 
nonconvulsive seizures.
Repeated clinical assessment of neurological status 
provides the foundation of neuromonitoring in TBI. It can 
be supplemented by noninvasive methods, such as the use 
of quantitative pupillometry at set intervals to quantify the 
pupillary light reflex (see the Basic Assessment section on 
page 10). While ICP monitoring is most commonly used 
to supplement clinical assessment, other techniques can 
supplement clinical assessment as well (see Intracranial 
Pressure Monitoring on page 22).
TBI is a complex disease with substantial heterogeneity. ICP 
monitoring alone cannot detect all potential insults to the 
brain, nor does it allow for patient-specific individualized 
care based on factors such as the presence or absence 
of autoregulation. Cerebral pressure autoregulation is 
the brain’s intrinsic ability to maintain constant CBF over 
a range of systemic blood pressures. This mechanism 
protects the brain from cerebral ischemia due to 
hypotension and from excessive blood flow that can 
lead to elevated ICP. The SIBICC algorithm recommends 
assessment of autoregulation status in patients who do not 
respond to initial therapy to reduce elevated ICP (see Tier 
One in Box 3 on page 26).1 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 29 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
29
Assessment of Cerebral Autoregulation
Mean arterial pressure challenge: Cerebral autoregulation 
can be assessed at the bedside in the ICU by performing a 
MAP challenge while monitoring ICP in the closed cranium. 
This challenge is performed by initiating or increasing a 
vasopressor infusion in euvolemic patients to increase 
the MAP by 10–15 mm Hg for no more than 20 minutes. 
Perform a MAP challenge under the direct supervision of a 
bedside provider experienced in performing the challenge 
so that patient response and safety are assured. Perform no 
other therapeutic adjustments during the MAP challenge.
Record key physiological parameters (MAP, ICP, CPP, PbtO2) 
before and after the MAP challenge. Patients with a closed 
cranium in whom ICP increases with a MAP challenge are 
considered to have impaired autoregulation, and they may 
benefit from a lower CPP goal. Conversely, patients with a 
closed cranium in whom ICP decreases or does not change 
significantly with a MAP challenge are considered to have 
intact autoregulation, and these patients—particularly those 
with decreasing ICP in response to the MAP challenge—
may benefit from a higher CPP goal. 
Cerebrovascular pressure reactivity index: Another 
ICP-based method used to continuously assess cerebral 
autoregulation status is to follow the cerebrovascular 
pressure reactivity index (PRx). The PRx is defined as the 
slope of the regression line relating MAP and ICP, and it can 
be used to establish patient-specific CPP thresholds. For 
patients with impaired cerebral autoregulation (PRx slope 
> 0.13), a lower CPP (50–60 mm Hg) may be considered as 
an option for treatment. Patients with intact autoregulation 
(PRx slope < 0.13) may benefit from a higher CPP (60–
70 mm Hg). Of note, assessment of the PRx requires 
specialized technical expertise and additional hardware and 
software, which are commercially available.
Brain tissue oxygen tension: Autoregulation status may 
also be assessed by following PbtO2, as long as systemic 
oxygenation (PaO2) is maintained at a constant level. Verify 
this by checking the arterial blood gas before and after the 
MAP challenge. 


--- Page 30 (LEFT) ---
Monitoring cerebral blood flow: Directly monitoring CBF 
can also be used to assess autoregulation status with a 
MAP challenge.2 In patients with intact autoregulation, 
CBF will change minimally in response to an increase in 
MAP. Conversely, CBF will rise with increasing MAP in 
patients with impaired autoregulation. Once determined, 
autoregulation status can be used to set CPP goals 
as described above. Similarly, transcranial doppler 
ultrasonography and hemodynamic challenge can also be 
used to assess autoregulation in TBI patients. 
Research findings: Multiple studies demonstrated an 
association between low PbtO2 (≤ 15 mm Hg) and episodes 
of jugular venous oxygen desaturation (≤ 50%) with poor 
patient outcomes.3–7 It is important to note that brain tissue 
hypoxia can occur even when ICP and CPP are normal. A 
Phase II prospective RCT (BOOST II) investigating PbtO2-
based management of severe TBI compared treatment 
guided by ICP alone to treatment guided by both ICP and 
PbtO2. This study demonstrated that the ICP + PbtO2 
management group had statistically significant decreased 
duration and severity of brain hypoxia, as well as a trend 
towards reduced mortality and improved neurologic 
outcome at 6 months.8 However, this trial was not powered 
to show significant differences in outcome. Several 
appropriately powered Phase III trials (BOOST III and 
BONANZA) are underway to compare outcomes between 
therapy guided by ICP alone versus therapy guided by ICP 
+ PbtO2. The recently concluded Oxy-TC trial did not find a 
difference in functional outcome between nonpenetrating 
TBI patients treated with ICP + PbtO2-based monitoring 
versus those treated with ICP-based monitoring alone.9
Brain tissue oxygen management: Accepted thresholds 
for treatment of brain tissue hypoxia are between 15–20 
mm Hg.8,10,11 Interventions that may be used to improve 
brain tissue oxygenation are detailed in the tiered SIBICC II 
algorithm and include the following1:
 
• Increase fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) to 60% (Tier 
One) or increase PaO2 to as high as 150 mm Hg (Tier 
Two) 
 
• Attempt increased sedation or neuromuscular paralysis 
to improve PbtO2 (Tier Two)
 
• Increase CPP in patients with intact autoregulation per 
MAP challenge (Tier Two) 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 30 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
30
 
• Increase PaO2 above 150 mm Hg (Tier Three) 
 
• Transfuse 1 unit of packed red blood cells if PbtO2 
remains less than 20 mm Hg despite CPP optimization 
(Tier Three) 
Knowledge of cerebral autoregulation status as described 
above may also facilitate the use of PbtO2 to individualize 
CPP goals. Keep the potential harmful effects of hyperoxia 
in mind, especially when proceeding to Tier Three therapies. 
Electroencephalography
Use of EEG allows continuous monitoring of brain 
function at the bedside, assisting in seizure detection and 
management. It has a significant role in the detection 
of nonconvulsive seizures as the potential cause for a 
diminished level of consciousness that would otherwise 
go undetected.12 Nonconvulsive seizures were reported to 
occur in an estimated 25% of patients with moderate to 
severe TBI, and they were reported to be associated with 
worse outcomes and long-term hippocampal atrophy.13–14
Surface EEG requires a trained, on-site technician and a 
physician trained to interpret the waveforms. Emerging 
techniques, including quantitative EEG, may decrease the 
need for a physician trained to interpret waveforms, but 
this is not available at all trauma centers. The role of EEG 
is expanding beyond the detection of seizures. While still 
considered experimental, the detection of secondary brain 
ischemia and covert consciousness is possible using depth 
and surface EEG. 
Multimodal Neuromonitoring
Trauma centers treating larger numbers of patients 
with severe TBI, and those centers with expertise in 
neurocritical care, may attempt to undertake multimodality 
neuromonitoring, incorporating at least one element of 
neuromonitoring beyond ICP monitoring in isolation. 
Trauma centers treating lower volumes of patients with TBI 
may not have the resources to implement a full regimen of 
neuromonitoring beyond ICP monitoring.


--- Page 31 (LEFT) ---
Older Adult Considerations
Little literature exists specifically addressing the use of 
multimodality monitoring in older adult patients. Thus, 
potential impacts must be extrapolated. Differences in 
the aging physiology may influence both the utility and 
interpretation of data derived from these modalities. 
 Studies published suggest a decreased use of invasive ICP 
monitoring for older adult patients and/or worse outcomes 
with use.15,16 These observations may reflect a difference 
in aggressiveness of care or decreased suspicion about 
a raised ICP due to cerebral volume loss. Other studies 
reported a negative correlation between age and invasively 
measured ICP in patients with TBI. It follows that “normal” 
ICP is believed to decrease with advancing age.17
 Aging vessels may react to brain injury insults differently 
or unpredictably. Increasing arterial stiffness translates into 
a reduction in CBF and increased blood flow pulsatility—
the net effect is impaired CBF regulation.18 Orthostatic 
episodes and syncope may expose the brain to periods of 
hypoperfusion. However, the capacity for autoregulation is 
believed to be preserved with aging.19 Chronic hypertension 
shifts the autoregulatory curve to the right, protecting 
the brain from higher blood pressures but potentially 
increasing the risk of hypoperfusion with periods of relative 
hypotension. Interpretation of pupillometry data may 
be confounded by natural changes that occur with aging 
(see the Basic Assessment section on page 10 for more 
information about pupillometry). 
 Baseline EEG abnormalities—most often diffuse or 
focal slowing, but sometimes epileptiform activity—are 
common in older adult patients with a range of medical 
comorbidities.20 While this likely reflects a certain 
prevalence of cerebral dysfunction among older adult 
patients, it may confound interpretation of an EEG 
performed in the setting of an acute change in clinical 
status.
Pediatric Considerations
Clinical examination may be more difficult to follow in 
children, and age-appropriate adaptations to maximize 
the sensitivity of a clinical exam need to be applied. Fewer 
data exist on the application of cerebral tissue oxygenation 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 31 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
31
in children than in adults, and age-dependent variability 
is recognized. In the absence of validated normative 
thresholds, it is not known how to use data such as PbtO2 or 
measures of autoregulation in pediatric patients.
Although continuous EEG is not routinely used in children at 
this time, a subset of children, particularly infants, may be 
at particularly high risk for seizures from TBI, and broader 
application may be appropriate.21–25

BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 32 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
32


--- Page 33 (LEFT) ---
SURGICAL MANAGEMENT
KEY POINTS
 
• Evacuate a large traumatic hematoma before 
neurological deterioration develops, irrespective of the 
GCS score.
 
• For evacuation of an acute SDH, perform a large 
trauma craniotomy to achieve optimal damage control 
and provide the option for a primary decompressive 
craniectomy (bone flap left out).
 
• Following hematoma evacuation, consider if the bone 
flap can be replaced without compressing the brain by 
evaluating factors such as burden of concomitant brain 
injuries, other extracranial injuries, availability of ICP 
monitoring, and ICU facilities. Leave the bone flap out if 
replacing it could cause brain compression.
 
• Secondary decompressive craniectomy is effective in 
controlling ICP and improves long-term outcome.
Surgical Indications
Surgery for patients with TBI is most commonly performed 
to evacuate an EDH or SDH or to decrease pressure on the 
brain resulting from cerebral contusions or intracerebral 
hematomas. Comatose patients presenting to the ED 
should be taken to surgery immediately upon arrival if 
a large hematoma is identified as the likely cause of the 
coma and the patient has a chance of meaningful recovery. 
Even if a patient has a relatively high GCS score, evacuate 
a large (> 25 mL) traumatic hematoma before neurological 
deterioration develops from hematoma enlargement or 
brain swelling. A lower threshold for surgical intervention 
may apply to posterior fossa lesions. Admitted patients 
who undergo neurological deterioration from delayed 
development or enlargement of a hematoma require 
prompt surgical evacuation to prevent further neurological 
worsening. 
In patients with an acute SDH, perform a large craniotomy 
for optimal damage control, including evacuation of the 
hematoma, identification of the bleeding source (e.g., 
bridging veins, temporal base, superficial contusion), and 
meticulous hemostasis. Concordant with the BTF Guidelines 
for the Management of Severe TBI, 4th Edition, a large 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 33 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
33
craniotomy bone flap (≈ 12 × 15 cm) is created to effectively 
visualize sources of hemorrhage in the parasagittal, parieto-
occipital, and temporo-basal regions.1 This also maximizes 
the opportunity for primary and secondary decompression. 
The 15 cm recommendation may be excessive in some 
patients with smaller heads. Note that a bone flap of at 
least 13 cm in the vertical plane provides the opportunity for 
optimal decompression of the middle fossa. Additional bony 
removal in the subtemporal region and the sphenoid wing 
can be considered to augment exposure and decompression 
(see Figure 2). No role exists for attempted burr hole 
drainage of solid clots. 
Figure 2. Trauma Craniotomy
Courtesy of Ken Probst, UCSF, San Francisco, CA
A large frontotemporoparietal craniotomy provides optimal 
visualization of the bleeding source and an opportunity 
for primary or secondary decompression. A large reverse 
question mark incision is made starting 1 cm anterior to 
the tragus at the root of the zygoma, coursing just superior 
to the pinna and extending posteriorly over the parietal 
bossing, then carried forward linearly to the hairline while 
staying 1.5–2 cm lateral to midline. The myocutaneous 
flap is reflected to expose the keyhole and the root of the 
zygoma. Burr holes are placed to enable a large craniotomy 
for decompression of the anterior and middle fossa floor.


--- Page 34 (LEFT) ---
Decompressive Craniectomy
Decompressive craniectomy, in which after performing 
a large frontotemporoparietal craniotomy the bone flap 
is not replaced, has recently increased in popularity. Two 
indications for decompressive craniectomy exist in the 
context of trauma.
Primary decompressive craniectomy: This procedure 
involves leaving the bone flap out following acute 
evacuation of a mass lesion (typically an acute SDH). In 
the presence of brain swelling, a primary decompressive 
craniectomy is recommended following evacuation of the 
mass lesion. However, the bone flap may be replaced if the 
underlying brain is not compressed and other factors are 
considered (e.g., burden of concomitant brain injuries, other 
extracranial injuries, availability of ICP monitoring, and ICU 
facilities). See Figure 3.2
Figure 3. Initial Surgical Management Pathway 
Courtesy of Geoffrey Manley, M.D., Ph.D., San Francisco General Hospital, UCSF, San Francisco, CA and Peter Hutchinson, F.R.C.S. (Surg. Neurol.) 
Addenbrooke’s Hospital, University of Cambridge, UK
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 34 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
34
Secondary decompressive craniectomy: This procedure 
involves removing a bone flap to control brain swelling, 
as well as elevated ICP that is refractory to medical 
treatment. Patients with hematomas, contusions, and/or 
diffuse injury that do not have an indication for immediate 
surgery are managed medically. However, in the presence 
of raised and refractory ICP (> 25 mm Hg), secondary 
decompressive craniectomy was demonstrated to reduce 
mortality and improve outcome over time (24-month 
data).3,4 The RESCUEicp trial predicted that if 100 patients 
are treated with secondary decompressive craniectomy 
(compared to conservative management), there are 21 extra 
survivors with the following functional outcomes: one-third 
independent outside the home, one-third independent in 
the home, and one-third dependent (see Figure 4).3


--- Page 35 (LEFT) ---
Figure 4. Initial Medical Management Pathway
Courtesy of Geoffrey Manley, M.D., Ph.D., San Francisco General Hospital, UCSF, San Francisco, CA; and Peter Hutchinson, F.R.C.S. (Surg. Neurol.) 
Addenbrooke’s Hospital, University of Cambridge, UK.
Other Surgical Decisions 
Traumatic intracerebral hematoma/hemorrhagic 
contusion: Management for this condition remains 
controversial. For patients with mass effect and neurological 
decline, the decision for surgical intervention is more 
straightforward. However, for patients with smaller 
lesions, the choice of early surgery to prevent secondary 
injury is debatable. The STITCH (Trauma) trial, which was 
prematurely terminated due to slow patient recruitment, 
demonstrated improved survival in the early surgery group 
and a trend towards better functional outcome, especially 
in the subgroup with GCS 9–12.5 More recently, early 
surgery versus conservative treatment was studied in the 
prospective longitudinal CENTER-TBI cohort. For traumatic 
intracerebral hematoma in patients with GCS 9–12 or an 
isolated traumatic intracerebral hematoma, early surgery 
was associated with improved outcome, similar to the 
STITCH (Trauma) study.6 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 35 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
35
Depressed skull fractures: Depressed skull fractures are 
commonly surgically elevated if the depression is greater 
than the thickness of the adjacent skull, especially if located 
in a cosmetically important area like the forehead. Open 
depressed skull fractures are usually treated surgically to 
prevent infection. However, nonoperative management may 
be attempted in selected cases, limited to those without 
dural laceration, gross contamination, evidence of infection, 
or injury to the frontal sinus. In most cases, depressed skull 
fractures over a dural venous sinus are not treated surgically 
because of the high risk for uncontrollable hemorrhage.

BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 36 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
36


--- Page 37 (LEFT) ---
NUTRITIONAL SUPPORT
KEY POINT
 
• Initiate enteral nutrition (EN) support once a patient is 
hemodynamically stable, ideally within 24–72 hours of 
injury.
 
• Achieve full nutritional supplementation within 7 days of 
injury.
 
• Postpyloric feeding access is preferred if it can be 
obtained rapidly without delaying initiation of EN. When 
obtaining postpyloric access causes delay in EN support, 
early initiation via gastric access is acceptable.
 
• Consideration for parenteral nutrition (PN) support is 
recommended when EN is contraindicated.
Patients with TBI are at risk for significant protein and 
energy deficits during hospitalization, and they experience 
significant loss of lean body mass during the critical care 
phase of recovery.1 Nutritional support is essential to meet 
the patient’s nutrition requirements, both to prevent the 
development of malnutrition and to blunt the catabolic 
effects of TBI.2,3 
Nutrition Targets
Patients with TBI demonstrate metabolic disturbances 
lasting 1 week to several months following their injury. 
Energy expenditure of 120% to 250% of predicted basal 
expenditure was reported.4–6 Muscle activity, fever, 
infection, and additional injury appear to contribute to 
hypermetabolism, while normothermia protocols may result 
in energy expenditure below predicted levels.7,8 Indirect 
calorimetry is the optimal method to determine caloric 
targets following TBI. One study of patients with critical 
illness and trauma found that patients with TBI did not 
experience increased protein demands compared to trauma 
patients without TBI, and delivery of protein up to 2 g/kg/
day improved nitrogen balance.9 
Initiating Enteral Feeding
Studies, including a large meta-analysis, demonstrated 
that early nutritional support is associated with fewer 
infections and lower mortality.6,10–14 Initiation of EN 
within the first two days of admission following TBI was 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 37 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
37
associated with reduced pneumonia and hospital LOS. 
Early EN is most commonly defined as within 24 to 72 
hours of injury. This timing of early EN is recommended in 
conjunction with the BTF recommendation of achieving full 
nutritional support within 7 days of injury.15 The American 
Society for Enteral and Parenteral Nutrition makes similar 
recommendations.16,17 
High-protein EN formulations are preferred to better meet 
protein targets following TBI. Immune-enhancing enteral 
formulations may reduce infectious complications and 
improve nutritional parameters in patients with TBI.18 Fish 
oil was shown to reduce inflammatory stress and cellular 
damage in murine models and small human trials.19–21 
Consider using fish-oil fortified EN formulas unless 
contraindications exist. 
Feeding Methods
Studies specific to patients with TBI demonstrate significant 
reduction in rates of pneumonia with postpyloric feeding 
tube placement. However, the level of feeding did not 
impact other outcomes.22 The potential benefits of 
postpyloric feeding must be weighed against the benefits of 
early EN initiation; avoid delayed initiation of EN in pursuit 
of postpyloric access.
Consider PN when an absolute contraindication for EN 
exists and is anticipated to delay initiation of EN support.16 
However, EN is more cost-effective and physiologically 
correct and is therefore the first-line nutrition support 
therapy. If EN is contraindicated, initiation of PN support 
within 72 hours postinjury is recommended.
Glycemic Control
Glycemic targets for adults who are critically ill range from 
100 to 180 mg/dL in published guidelines. Hypo- and 
hyperglycemia are associated with worsened outcomes in 
observational studies of patients with TBI.23,24 
Older Adult Considerations
Older adult patients with TBI are at increased risk for 
nutrition-related sequelae. Rates of malnutrition (protein-
energy deficit or undernutrition) can be as high as 62% at 
admission, and it is associated with higher morbidity (e.g., 


--- Page 38 (LEFT) ---
cognitive impairment, infection, depressive symptoms), 
delayed mobilization, increased LOS, and readmission.25 
Management includes screening and ongoing nutritional 
status monitoring.26 The Mini Nutritional Assessment is the 
most widely used screening tool (https://www.mna-elderly.
com/sites/default/files/2021-10/mna-mini-english.pdf).27,28 
The Geriatric Nutritional Risk Index is another nutritional 
assessment based on serum albumin levels and body mass 
index.29–31 
The aims of nutritional intervention include the following:
 
• Replenishment of protein and energy stores 
 
• Maintenance of functional capacity 
 
• Reduction of malnutrition-associated costs (e.g., LOS, 
subacute care, and quality of life)32 
Dysphagia increases the risk of aspiration and 
malnutrition.32 The primary risk factor for dysphagia is 
mechanical ventilation, leading to further complications.33 
Screening entails volume-viscosity swallow testing that can 
be administered at the bedside.34 
Pediatric Considerations
Nutrition therapies for pediatric patients with severe TBI 
must take into account hydration and electrolyte goals to 
prevent fluid shifts that could worsen cerebral edema. 
Equations for predicting energy expenditure may 
overestimate requirements in severe TBI. Neuroprotective 
interventions in contemporary TBI management 
(e.g., sedation, neuromuscular blockade, effective 
thermoregulation, and seizure control) may depress 
energy expenditure, potentially even below predicted basal 
levels.35–37
Pediatric-specific data support the following nutrition 
recommendations consistent with adults:
 
• Initiate EN support once a patient is hemodynamically 
stable, ideally within 24 to 72 hours of injury.38,39
 
• Attempt to achieve full nutritional supplementation 
within 7 days of injury.38
 
• Gastric or postpyloric access are viable modes of EN, 
although more patients achieve caloric goals with 
postpyloric feeds, without a difference in symptoms of 
feeding intolerance.40
 
• In patients for whom EN is contraindicated, consider PN 
support. 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 38 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
38


--- Page 40 (LEFT) ---
AIRWAY AND VENTILATION
KEY POINTS
 
• Early endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation 
are recommended in patients with TBI and reduced 
consciousness (i.e., GCS < 9), severe agitation, loss of 
airway protective reflexes, or a GCS > 8 in the presence 
of thoracic and abdominal injuries.
 
• Prescribe ventilator settings to assure that arterial 
pH remains 7.35–7.45, PaCO2 is 35–45 mm Hg (in the 
absence of intracranial hypertension and/or severe 
metabolic acidosis), and oxygen saturation is at least 
94%. 
 
• Tracheal extubation can be challenging in neurocritical 
care patients. Consider extubation when intracranial 
hypertension is resolved, no evolving lesions were 
documented on the last CT scan, and the patient is able 
to control upper airway reflexes and cough. 
Intubation and Ventilation Management 
Early intubation and mechanical ventilation are 
cornerstones of TBI management in patients with reduced 
consciousness (i.e., a GCS < 9), severe agitation, and loss 
of airway protective reflexes. The aim is to avoid hypoxia, 
control carbon dioxide levels, and minimize the risk of 
aspiration. During tracheal intubation, protect the cervical 
spine due to possible associated spinal injuries. Once 
intubated, ventilate with goals to maintain arterial pH 7.35–
7.45, PaCO2 35–40 mm Hg (in the absence of intracranial 
hypertension and/or severe metabolic acidosis), and oxygen 
saturation at least 94%. 
 
• The optimal target range of PaO2 is 80–100 mm Hg. This 
could be higher if neuromonitoring (e.g., brain tissue 
oxygen targeted approaches) suggests it. 
 
• The optimal target range of PaCO2 is 35–45 mm Hg in 
patients who do not have elevated ICP. 
Mild hyperventilation (PaCO2 of 32–35 mm Hg) is 
suggested as a SIBICC Tier-Two treatment for controlling 
high ICP or during neurologic worsening (uncal herniation).1 
In the presence of refractory severe intracranial 
hypertension, or when a threatened or actual herniation 
is detected (e.g., a dilated unreactive pupil), reduction 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 40 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
40
of PaCO2 to less than 30 mm Hg may be justified as a 
temporizing measure while other interventions (including 
surgery) are put in place. However, consider such profound 
hyperventilation to be a rescue procedure and use it for as 
short a period as possible, because it can result in arterial 
spasm and decreased CBF.1 The PaCO2 levels indicated here 
may be detected by continuous end-tidal CO2 monitoring, 
while recognizing that arterial end-tidal CO2 gradients 
vary between patients and individuals over time. In most 
instances, moderate levels of positive end-expiratory 
pressure (PEEP) of < 10 cm H2O will not elevate ICP further 
in the presence of intracranial hypertension. It can be safely 
applied to maintain oxygenation when accompanied by ICP 
monitoring.2 
Rescue therapies for severe/refractory ventilatory failure, 
such as prone positioning, neuromuscular blockers, and 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), have 
not been systematically studied in the context of TBI. 
Apply them cautiously and on an individual basis, because 
monitoring and controlling their effect on intracranial 
volumes and intracranial bleeding is mandatory.
ECMO is increasingly utilized in severe polytrauma 
patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome. 
Compared to venoatrial ECMO, venovenous ECMO without 
anticoagulation was shown to have a survival benefit 
in the selected, monitored cases where the patient’s 
systemic oxygenation was unresponsive to conventional 
management.3 
Extubation Planning
Tracheal extubation remains challenging.4 The probability of 
extubation success increases in the following conditions:
 
• GCS motor score of 6 
 
• Normal respiratory drive 
 
• Stable intracranial conditions 
 
• Intact airway protective reflexes (vigorous cough, gag 
reflex, and swallowing attempts)
 
• Endotracheal suctioning ≤ 2 times per hour
The difficulty with uniformly predicting successful tracheal 
extubation for patients with TBI means that tracheal 
extubation may be attempted in some patients while 
accepting that reintubation may be needed. If tracheal 


--- Page 41 (LEFT) ---
extubation fails or is not possible due to the absence 
of safety criteria, the need for tracheostomy must be 
evaluated.
Older Adult Considerations
As a general rule, the decision-making and management of 
mechanical ventilation in an older adult with severe TBI is 
the same as for a younger patient. Consider an individual 
patient’s goals of care when making decisions about the 
provision of invasive support. Although hypoxia is clearly 
detrimental to patients of any age with severe TBI, the use 
of mechanical ventilation to tightly control CO2 may not 
be as important in a patient with cerebral atrophy and a 
relatively lower risk of intracranial hypertension. However, 
older adult patients may have baseline oropharyngeal 
dysfunction making early intubation following TBI even 
more appropriate. Endotracheal intubation and mechanical 
ventilation in older patients carry the same risks as in 
younger patients.
Pediatric Considerations
No pediatric-specific literature or guidelines on mechanical 
ventilation after TBI have been published. A cuffed 
endotracheal tube is favored for children with TBI who 
require intubation, in order to facilitate optimal ventilation 
strategies and minimize risk of aspiration. Overall, the 
general physiologic considerations motivating ventilation 
management for children with TBI are similar to those for 
adults. 

--- Page 41 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
41


--- Page 42 (LEFT) ---
TRACHEOSTOMY
KEY POINT
 
• Consider all patients with severe TBI for early 
tracheostomy, within 7 days of injury, when rapid 
improvement is determined to be unlikely. 
 
• Early tracheostomy can decrease the risk of prolonged 
mechanical ventilation and pneumonia.
ICU patients with severe TBI often require prolonged 
mechanical ventilation for the following reasons: 
 
• Attenuated or loss of the pharyngeal protection reflex 
 
• Excessive secretions 
 
• Ventilator dyssynchrony 
 
• Impaired oxygen and CO2 exchange
 
• Severe agitation
 
• Severe associated injuries, including facial, airway, or 
thoracic injury
When the patient’s level of consciousness remains 
persistently depressed, consider performing a tracheostomy 
to have a patent airway and to decrease the ventilator-
associated risks of pneumonia and ventilator-induced lung 
injury. 
Early Tracheostomy
While no clear evidence exists for survival benefit, early 
tracheostomy is shown to reduce ICU and hospital LOS 
in patients with TBI. No absolute contraindications for 
tracheostomy exist, but relative contraindications include 
the following: uncontrolled intracranial hypertension, 
hemodynamic instability, and severe respiratory failure 
requiring high levels of FiO2 (> 50%) and PEEP (> 10 cm 
H2O).1 Additional benefits of tracheostomy for patients 
receiving prolonged mechanical ventilation include 
improved patient comfort associated with reduced 
oropharyngeal irritation and improved pulmonary hygiene. 
These factors might also accelerate liberation from 
mechanical ventilation.2 A recent study demonstrated 
tracheostomy rates in patients with severe TBI to be 
31.8%, with 41% of tracheostomies performed within 7 
days of injury and 26% performed more than 14 days after 
injury.3 This demonstrated substantial differences between 
participating centers regarding the timing of tracheostomy.3
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 42 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
42
The BTF 4th edition guidelines for patients with severe 
TBI provide a Level IIA recommendation for performing 
early tracheostomy to reduce ventilation days. However, 
the recommendation makes no statement regarding 
an associated reduction of mortality or pneumonia.4 
Limited evidence exists to recommend either surgical or 
percutaneous tracheostomy in the setting of TBI, but a 
percutaneous procedure can be safe and well tolerated. 
Consider performing an early tracheostomy for patients 
with severe TBI who are unlikely to be liberated from the 
ventilator within 7 days.5 
Older Adult Considerations
Multiple studies reported that older adult patients are less 
likely to undergo a tracheostomy.6,7 When tracheostomy is 
performed in older patients, it is often performed later in 
the hospital course than for younger patients.7 This is true 
despite the fact that tracheostomies in older patients are 
reported to be associated with lower in-hospital mortality.7 
Both tracheostomy placement and oral intubation are 
independent risk factors for the development of dysphagia, 
a common complication in injured older adults.8 Performing 
a tracheostomy in an older adult with severe TBI must be 
weighed against the patient’s goals of care. 
Pediatric Considerations
Tracheostomy timing for children was studied 
retrospectively based on a single center and national North 
American databases.9 Similar to the adult evidence, early 
tracheostomy is suggested to decrease ICU morbidity and 
LOS in pediatric TBI.9–11 However, less information exists 
about tracheostomy timing for infants with abusive head 
trauma.10 Adolescents likely benefit from similar early 
tracheostomy strategies as adults.
Children under 10 years old may have a different risk profile 
for tracheostomy. Therefore, it may be inappropriate to 
extrapolate the benefits seen in early tracheostomy after 
TBI from adults and adolescents to younger children and 
infants. Additionally, the technique and complication 
profile of tracheostomy in children may be different than 
in adults. In children, particularly those under 10 years of 
age, the percutaneous technique is uncommon compared 
to its frequency of use in the adult ICU setting.12–14 Airway 
anatomy and even available tracheostomy equipment are 


--- Page 43 (LEFT) ---
also different for children. For example, pediatric tubes are 
single-lumen and not fenestrated, and appropriate tube 
sizing is much more variable.13

--- Page 43 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
43


--- Page 44 (LEFT) ---
TIMING OF EXTRACRANIAL 
PROCEDURES
KEY POINTS
 
• Balance the urgency of operation against the risks posed 
by intracranial hypertension when making the decision 
to undertake surgery for extracranial injuries.
 
• Delay extracranial surgery in patients with or at high risk 
for intracranial hypertension, except in the context of 
lifesaving procedures.
 
• When the patient’s ICP is monitored and well-controlled 
or where raised ICP is not a concern, clinicians may 
proceed with necessary orthopaedic stabilization 
and other time-sensitive surgery within 48 hours of 
admission.
 
• Avoid laparoscopic procedures, because they raise intra-
abdominal pressure and induce hypercarbia.
 
• Provide careful monitoring during general anesthesia 
to avoid raised ICP, hypotension, hypoxia, and hypo- or 
hypercarbia.
The primary determinant of mortality in a polytrauma 
patient is often the severity of the head injury.1 Even 
moderate TBI doubles predicted mortality when associated 
with extracranial injury.2 Optimal surgical management 
of extracranial injuries in polytrauma patients with 
severe TBI demands a systematic approach emphasizing 
multidisciplinary involvement and effective communication. 
Hemodynamic status dictates initial priorities for imaging 
and management. When the patient is hemodynamically 
stable, the neurologic injury may take precedence. When 
the patient is unstable because of hemorrhage from 
concomitant injury, the primary focus shifts to resuscitation 
and control of bleeding. 
Extracranial Surgical Procedure Planning
Direct the goals of therapy toward the dual tasks of 
preventing multi-organ failure and mitigating secondary 
brain injury. A recent large cohort study found significantly 
worse functional outcomes at 2 weeks and 6 months for 
patients with CT-positive acute TBI who were exposed to 
extracranial operations and anesthesia.3
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 44 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
44
Anesthesia considerations: Assure careful monitoring 
during anesthesia to avoid hypotension, hypoxia, and hypo- 
or hypercarbia. A single episode of hypotension doubles 
mortality.4 When ICP is being monitored, maintain CPP at  
60 mm Hg.5 Because of the adverse effects of inhalational 
anesthesia on ICP, intravenous (IV) anesthesia is often 
preferable. While neuraxial regional anesthetic techniques 
(spinal and epidural anesthesia) are contraindicated in 
patients with intracranial hypertension, a role may exist for 
peripheral nerve blocks (whether single shot or continuous) 
to provide analgesia and facilitate surgery. 
Timing of surgical procedures: Damage control 
orthopaedics—early external fixation after initial 
stabilization, with delayed definitive treatment—aims 
to minimize the risk of the so-called neurologic “second 
hit” that may occur in conjunction with early orthopaedic 
interventions (early total care).10–12 The concept of safe 
definitive surgery was recently introduced to strike a balance 
between the extremes of early total care and damage 
control orthopaedics.13 The timing of surgery is optimized 
through repeated patient assessment, with attention to 
changing physiology and clinical status (classified as stable, 
borderline, unstable, or in extremis). 
The timing of orthopaedic procedures (primarily long-
bone repair) does not appear to have an overall effect on 
outcomes in patients with severe TBI, with the following 
provisions.6–9 In patients with intracranial hypertension, 
give consideration to delaying trips to the operating room 
unless lifesaving procedures are required. Perform open 
laparotomy or open thoracotomy when needed, with 
adherence to the same general principles of avoiding 
secondary brain injury. Laparoscopy is generally avoided, 
especially early on, because it raises intra-abdominal 
pressure and induces hypercarbia.14,15 The contribution of 
hypercarbia to long-term adverse neurologic outcomes is 
debatable, however. The majority of facial fractures are not 
life-threatening and do not require emergent intervention; 
however, such patients may be vulnerable to respiratory 
distress. Routine ICU procedures (e.g., tracheostomy and 
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy) may be performed 
once the patient’s condition has stabilized. The timing of 
spine fracture-dislocation surgery may depend on spine 
stability and the need for emergency spinal decompression 
in patients with spinal cord injury.


--- Page 45 (LEFT) ---
Older Adult Considerations
The average age of polytrauma patients has increased 
over time.16 Severe TBI and age > 65 years are known to 
be independent prognostic factors for mortality during the 
initial hospital stay. Older adult patients presenting with 
polytrauma are vulnerable to more severe injury, longer LOS, 
and a greater likelihood of mortality than younger patients 
with similar injuries.16 These findings are associated with 
geriatric patients having a greater likelihood of comorbid 
medical conditions, preexisting neurologic or psychiatric 
diagnoses, and chronic antiplatelet or anticoagulant 
therapy.17 Weigh these factors when contemplating 
extracranial interventions, because they may influence 
decisions with respect to the timing and the extent of 
procedures to be performed.
Pediatric Considerations
Children frequently experience polytrauma in association 
with TBI, and at least a third of children with severe TBI 
require extracranial surgery.18 The severity of TBI is also a 
major determinant of outcome in children with polytrauma, 
similar to the findings in adults.19 No definitive data exist 
to suggest a different management pattern in the surgical 
care of extracranial injuries for children. Thus, prioritize 
hemodynamic stability to minimize significant secondary 
brain injury.20,21

--- Page 46 (LEFT) ---
EXTRACRANIAL BLUNT 
CEREBROVASCULAR INJURY
KEY POINTS
 
• When a blunt cerebrovascular injury (BCVI) is found, 
initiate treatment with anticoagulation or antiplatelet 
agents as soon as the TBI is stable, ideally within the first 
24 hours.
 
• Spine fractures are the single most predictive factor of 
BCVI, with greatest risk to the vertebral artery.
 
• Perform liberal screening in older adult patients with risk 
factors for BCVI, because BCVI in geriatric patients is an 
independent risk factor for mortality.
Extracranial BCVI has a reported incidence of 2.7% to 7.6% 
among patients who had CT angiography following blunt 
force trauma.1,2 Undetected carotid and vertebral artery 
injury can lead to delayed therapy and increase the patient’s 
risk of stroke. Patients at high risk of stroke can present with 
both carotid and vertebral artery injury. Untreated carotid 
and vertebral artery injuries have a mortality as high as 38% 
and 18%, respectively.3,4 Both Denver and Memphis trauma 
groups have recommended criteria to screen for BCVI (see 
Box 5).
Spine fractures are the single most predictive factor of 
BCVI, with greatest risk to the vertebral artery.3,5,11–13 Older 
adult patients with low-energy injury mechanisms, including 
ground-level falls, are also at risk for BCVI.14 Radiographic 
screening for BCVI with CT angiography is a sufficient and 
cost-effective modality, and it is the recommended means 
of excluding this injury.15–17 However, for questionable 
injuries or those that may be amenable to endovascular 
treatment, formal angiography may be performed.
Even with strict adherence to the Denver and Memphis 
screening criteria, 20% to 30% of BCVIs are missed.1,2,18,19 
Several studies now recommend universal screening for 
all patients with major trauma using a whole-body CT 
(WBCT) scan.1,2,18 The WBCT includes a non-contrast CT 
of the head followed by a multi-slice (40- or 64-slice) CT 
scan incorporating a single IV contrast-enhanced pass from 
the circle of Willis through the pelvis. This imaging allows 
screening for BCVI while evaluating the cervical spine, 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 46 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
46
Box 5. Recommended Screening Criteria for BCVI5–10
 
• Scalp degloving injury
 
• Severe TBI with GCS < 6
 
• TBI with thoracic injuries
 
• Neurological exam findings not explained by 
neuroimaging
 
• Focal neurological deficit (transient ischemic 
attack, hemiparesis, vertebrobasilar symptoms, 
oculosympathetic palsy/Horner syndrome)
 
• Evidence of cerebral ischemia or vascular territory 
edema on CT or MRI 
 
• Base of skull fracture with involvement of the carotid 
canal or petrous temporal bone
 
• Complex skull fracture (e.g., involving frontal or 
other sinuses, orbit) 
 
• Le Fort II or III fracture pattern
 
• Mandible fracture
 
• Cervical spine fracture
 
• Arterial hemorrhage from the neck, nose, or mouth
 
• Neck soft tissue injury (e.g., seatbelt sign, hanging, 
hematoma)
 
• Near hanging with hypoxic-ischemic (anoxic) brain 
injury
 
• Clothesline-type injury or seat belt abrasion with 
significant swelling, pain, or altered mental status
 
• Crepitus in soft tissue of neck
 
• Cervical bruit in patients < 50 years of age
 
• Upper rib fractures
 
• Thoracic vascular injuries
 
• Blunt cardiac rupture
chest, abdomen, and pelvis.1,2,19 Although some authors 
question the benefit of a universal WBCT scan for trauma 
patients, the practice is supported by the American College 
of Radiology (ACR) Appropriate Use Criteria of CT scans for 
major blunt trauma.20,21 


--- Page 47 (LEFT) ---
BCVI Management
Management of BCVI is principally focused on mitigating 
the risk of thromboembolism, which would result in 
ischemic stroke.9,22,23 Treatment options include the use 
of antiplatelet agents, anticoagulants, and endovascular 
therapy. Large observational studies identified that 
treatment with any antithrombotic medication appears to 
be associated with lower risk of stroke than no treatment, 
although this has not been tested in large randomized 
trials.4,22 Trials of patients with cervical arterial dissection, 
including but not primarily focused on BCVI patients, have 
found that antiplatelet therapy and anticoagulation with 
warfarin (usually with bridging IV heparin until INR is 
therapeutic) generally perform in a similar manner, although 
a slight benefit to warfarin may exist.24–26 
When a BCVI is found, current best practice is to initiate 
treatment with anticoagulation or antiplatelet agents as 
soon as the TBI is stable, ideally within the first 24 hours for 
patients who are not at a high risk for TBI progression and in 
whom bleeding from extracranial injuries is controlled.23,27–30 
This recommendation is reasonable for patients who 
have experienced symptoms from cerebral ischemia (e.g., 
transient ischemic attack or infarction) and for patients 
asymptomatic from their extracranial BCVI. Remaining 
questions include, is dual antiplatelet therapy preferred over 
aspirin alone, and do high-risk features such as intraluminal 
thrombus or BCVI grade warrant anticoagulation over 
antiplatelet therapy? Information on the use of direct-acting 
oral anticoagulants as an alternative to warfarin is limited. 
Generally, treatment with antithrombotic agents continues 
for at least 3 months.26 Follow-up noninvasive imaging 
with CT angiography or MRI at 3 months is reasonable 
to assess healing.26 Consider reserving endovascular 
therapy with stenting or coil embolization for nonhealing 
pseudoaneurysms or recurrent cerebral ischemic events 
despite antithrombotic therapy.29 Primary endovascular 
embolization/sacrifice of an artery affected by BCVI is often 
not recommended as an initial strategy. This is because of 
the risk of periprocedural complications29 and the natural 
history of healing for many lesions, as long as the patient 
is protected from thromboembolic events by some form 
of antithrombotic therapy. However, depending upon the 
involved vessel and injury grade and configuration, stenting 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 47 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
47
for carotid injuries and stenting or embolic occlusion for 
vertebral injuries may be safely performed but may also still 
require adjunctive antiplatelet therapy.31
Older Adult Considerations
Data on BCVIs in older adult patients are relatively sparse. 
BCVIs are classically associated with a high-energy injury 
mechanism. Older adults are more commonly injured by 
lower-energy mechanisms, and they may not receive liberal 
screening for BCVI.32 However, older adults are at high risk 
for injuries typically associated with BCVI, such as vertebral 
body fractures. Although the overall incidence of BCVI is 
lower in older adults than in younger cohorts, BCVIs are 
found relatively commonly after ground-level falls.14 The 
consequences of these injuries in older adult patients 
can be devastating. Not only are they more likely to have 
higher-grade lesions, but BCVI in older patients are also 
an independent risk factor for mortality.14,33 Perform liberal 
screening in older adult patients with risk factors for BCVI. 
Pediatric Considerations
Pediatric evaluation for BCVI must consider the additional 
risk of radiation exposure in children. BCVI prevalence is 
lower in the pediatric population compared to adults, and 
application of the Denver criteria would likely overestimate 
BCVI incidence.34 The Utah score is a validated BCVI 
scoring system with high specificity and incorporates risk 
factors to classify patients as “low” or “high” risk of BCVI-
related complication (see Table 5).35,36 The McGovern 
modification adds two points for severe injury mechanism 
related to motor vehicle collision and results in increased 
sensitivity for BCVI diagnosis.37


--- Page 48 (LEFT) ---
Table 5. The Utah Score for Assessment of BCVI in Pediatric 
Patients
Variables
Score
GCS ≤ 8
1
Focal neurological deficits
2
Carotid canal fracture
2
Petrous temporal bone fracture
3
Cerebral infarction on CT
3
A maximum of 11 points are possible. A score ≥ 3 conferred an 18% risk of 
BCVI, while a score ≤ 2 was associated with less than 3% risk. 
From: Ravindra VM, Riva-Cambrin J, Sivakumar W, Metzger RR, Bollo RJ. Risk 
factors for traumatic blunt cerebrovascular injury diagnosed by computed 
tomography angiography in the pediatric population: A retrospective cohort 
study. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2015;15(6):599–606. 
This figure is protected by Copyright, is owned by Journal of Neurosurgery 
Publishing Group (JNSPG), and is used with permission only within this document 
hosted on the American College of Surgeons website. Permission to use it 
otherwise must be secured from JNSPG. Full text of the article containing the 
original figure is available at https://doi.org/10.3171/2014.11.PEDS14397.
Implementation of these risk stratification systems is 
suggested to identify patients at high risk who need to 
receive dedicated arch-to-vertex CT angiography. Like the 
adult recommendations, treatment with antiplatelet or 
anticoagulation therapy is initiated after BCVI diagnosis, 
based on intracranial injury stability and extracranial 
hemorrhage source control. Further evidence is required 
to identify specific treatment duration recommendations. 
Treatment should be individualized; however, consider 
surgery or endovascular therapy for higher-grade injuries 
(Biffl grade ≥ 3) or for patients with progressive lesions 
receiving medical therapy.36–38

--- Page 49 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
49


--- Page 50 (LEFT) ---
TIMING OF PHARMACOLOGIC VENOUS 
THROMBOEMBOLISM PROPHYLAXIS
KEY POINTS
 
• Venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis is 
recommended within 24 hours after injury in patients 
with low-risk nonoperative TBI, provided the follow-up 
CT shows no progression of intracranial injury.
 
• VTE prophylaxis is recommended within 24 to 48 hours 
after injury in patients with moderate- or high-risk 
nonoperative TBI, provided the follow-up head CT shows 
no progression of intracranial injury.
 
• In patients who have undergone craniotomy 
or craniectomy, consider initiating or resuming 
pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis within 24 to 48 hours 
after surgery if ICH is stable on postoperative CT.
 
• Low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) is preferred 
over unfractionated heparin (UFH) for prophylaxis in TBI 
patients.
Trauma patients, particularly those with polytrauma 
or severe injury patterns, have a significant risk of 
VTE. Patients with TBI have a high risk of VTE without 
prophylaxis or when receiving only mechanical 
prophylaxis.1,2 Providing pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis 
for trauma patients with significant injuries is standard 
practice.1–3 VTE risk increases for patients with TBI for each 
Table 6. Anatomic Factors and Risk for Intracranial Hemorrhage Progression
Criteria 
Low Risk
Moderate Risk
High Risk
Modified Berne-
Norwood criteria
No moderate- or high- risk criteria
•	 SDH or EDH > 8 mm
•	 Contusion or IVH > 2 cm 
•	 Multiple contusions per lobe 
•	 Scattered subarachnoid 
hemorrhage 
•	 Evidence of progression at 
24 hrs
Data from: Pastorek RA, Cripps MW, Bernstein IH, et al. The Parkland Protocol’s modified Berne-Norwood criteria predict two tiers of risk for traumatic 
brain injury progression. J Neurotrauma. 2014; 31: 1737–1743. doi: 10.1089/neu.2014.3366; Joseph B, Friese RS, Sadoun M, et al. The BIG (Brain Injury 
Guidelines) project: Defining the management of traumatic brain injury by acute care surgeons. J Trauma Acute Care Surg. 2014; 76: 965–969. doi: 10.1097/
TA.0000000000000161.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 50 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
50
day that passes without pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis, 
and VTE rates increase when trauma patients miss doses 
of pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis.3–5 A substantial body 
of evidence indicates that pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis 
reduces VTE rates in general trauma and TBI patients, and 
it may improve outcomes in TBI.6 Current best practice 
is to use mechanical prophylaxis on all TBI patients upon 
admission, regardless of their eligibility for pharmacologic 
prophylaxis.3
For patients with TBI, clinicians must balance concerns for 
progression of ICH with and without pharmacologic VTE 
prophylaxis against the known benefits of pharmacologic 
prophylaxis for reducing VTE risk. A general correlation 
of TBI severity with risk of ICH progression has been 
demonstrated.7,8 Individual patient factors may also affect 
risk of bleeding or thrombosis, such as congenital or 
acquired hypercoagulable or coagulopathic states, use of 
antithrombotic and anticoagulation medications, and acute 
injury patterns. The modified Berne-Norwood criteria and 
the Brain Injury Guidelines stratify risk of ICH progression 
based on mild, moderate, and severe injury patterns, with 
the Brain Injury Guidelines also accounting for several 
clinical factors (see Table 6).7,8 
• ICP monitor placement
• Craniotomy 
• Evidence of progression at 72 hrs


--- Page 51 (LEFT) ---
Current evidence supports early initiation of pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis in TBI patients. In the last decade, multiple 
studies and two systematic reviews have suggested that, 
in patients with ICH stability reported on follow-up CT 
scan and regardless of TBI severity, initiation of earlier 
prophylaxis is associated with reduced VTE rates without 
clinically significant ICH progression.6,9–14 Patients with 
progression of ICH prior to receiving prophylaxis and 
those undergoing cranial surgery, however, may behave 
differently and warrant additional observation prior to 
initiation of prophylaxis.4,15 While use of pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis in TBI patients continues to be an area 
of evolving investigation, a reassessment of the available 
evidence and expert consensus prompted these updated 
recommendations. 
In patients with nonoperative TBI patterns, repeating 
head CT imaging within 24 hours after the initial CT is 
recommended to assess ICH stability prior to starting 
pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis. The possible exception is 
patients with minimal hemorrhage on initial CT who may 
not warrant repeat imaging. In hospitalized patients with 
low risk of ICH (as described in Table 6), consider starting 
pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis within 24 hours if ICH is 
stable on repeat CT. In patients with moderate/high risk 
for ICH progression, consider starting pharmacologic VTE 
prophylaxis in 24 to 48 hours if ICH is stable on repeat CT.
Patients with an ICP monitor (intraparenchymal or EVD) 
but without craniotomy/craniectomy may be considered 
for pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis in the same manner 
as patients with nonoperative TBI described above. 
Withholding pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis prior to ICP 
monitor placement or while the monitor is in place is not 
recommended. Consider continuing pharmacologic VTE 
prophylaxis without holding doses prior to removal of the 
ICP monitor. Another option is to coordinate the timing of 
monitor insertion/removal after one half-life of the drug 
has passed. In patients who have undergone craniotomy/
craniectomy, consider initiating or resuming pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis in 24 to 48 hours after surgery if ICH 
is stable on postoperative CT. For patients with CT 
evidence of ICH progression, withholding pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis is recommended until ICH stability is 
demonstrated on repeat imaging, usually in another 24 to 
48 hours.14,15 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 51 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
51
LMWH is considered superior to UFH for VTE prophylaxis 
in trauma patients without TBI,1,3 and LMWH is the 
preferred agent for TBI patients, including those with ICP 
monitors.3,16–21 Current evidence suggests that LMWH 
is associated with lower VTE rates and comparable ICH 
progression rates when compared to UFH, in both operative 
and nonoperative TBI patients.16–21 Current best practice 
dosing for enoxaparin in general trauma patients is 40 
mg every 12 hours.1 Because of insufficient and specific 
research of this dosing regimen in patients with TBI, an 
initial regimen of 30 mg every 12 hours is recommended 
for patients with TBI. If using dalteparin, standard dosing is 
recommended. Additionally, consider monitoring anti-factor 
Xa activity levels to guide subsequent LMWH dosing.1–3,22 
If UFH is chosen for pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis, 
best practice is to dose at 5000 units every 8 hours. 
Use of prophylactic inferior vena cava filters is no longer 
recommended, regardless of the timing of pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis in TBI patients. The indication for inferior 
vena cava filter placement is the presence of a known 
VTE in a patient with contraindication for therapeutic 
anticoagulation.3 
Monitoring local experience for performance improvement 
(PI) opportunities is beneficial. PI metrics to consider 
include:
 
• Time to initiation of pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis
 
• Pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis agent used
 
• Delayed craniotomy/craniectomy rate
Older Adult Considerations
Pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis management in the 
geriatric population is the same as described for other 
adults. Keep in mind that altered renal function may affect 
LMWH dosing or prompt the use of UFH.
Pediatric Considerations
VTE in pediatric trauma patients is very rare in comparison 
to adult populations. Age is an important VTE risk factor 
in children; estimates show VTE incidence of 0.09% in 
patients ages 0–12 years, 0.27% in patients ages 13–15 
years, and 0.73% in patients ages 16–21 years.22,23 Several 
scoring systems have been proposed to determine the risk 
of VTE in individual pediatric trauma patients and to inform 


--- Page 52 (LEFT) ---
decisions regarding use of mechanical and pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis. General risk factors include older age, 
higher injury severity score, lower GCS, blood transfusion, 
prolonged central venous catheter use, and major 
surgery.23–25 Considering these factors, recommendations 
include: 
 
• Hospitals need to adopt a published VTE risk 
assessment tool (e.g., ROCKIT) for pediatric trauma 
patients, and VTE risk stratification needs to be 
performed following admission.26
 
• Children at low risk do not require pharmacologic VTE 
prophylaxis.
 
• Children at moderate risk need to have mechanical VTE 
prophylaxis initiated at admission. 
 
• Reserve pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis for patients 
considered at high risk for VTE.
 
• Pediatric contraindications to pharmacologic VTE 
prophylaxis are the same as for adults (regarding 
presence of ICH, risk of ICH progression, and recent 
surgery).
 
• LMWH is the preferred agent for pharmacologic VTE 
prophylaxis in the pediatric population. Use weight-
based dosing in young children.
 
• While duration of VTE prophylaxis is not well studied, 
discontinue VTE prophylaxis when the patient is 
ambulatory in the absence of other thrombogenic 
factors.

BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 53 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
53


--- Page 54 (LEFT) ---
PHARMACOTHERAPY FOR TRAUMATIC 
BRAIN INJURY
KEY POINTS
 
• Patients with TBI at high risk of early posttraumatic 
seizures (PTS) have a lower incidence of PTS when 
receiving phenytoin or levetiracetam, compared to those 
receiving no antiseizure medication (ASM).
 
• Consider the use of ASM prophylaxis for 7 days 
following severe TBI to prevent early PTS if risk factors 
are present; however, its use for more than 7 days to 
prevent late PTS is not recommended. 
 
• Carefully assess patients receiving warfarin or direct-
acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs) and initiate drug-
specific reversal therapy for those requiring emergent 
surgery for life-threatening bleeding.
 
• Consider restarting anticoagulation no later than 14–90 
days after TBI, depending on patient-specific risk for 
thrombosis and bleeding.
 
• Routine platelet transfusion is not recommended 
for use in reversing antiplatelet agent effects. Use 
clinical judgment to determine if patients with TBI 
on antiplatelet agents who are undergoing surgery 
or invasive procedures with low platelet counts need 
platelet transfusions to achieve hemostasis. 
 
• Restart antiplatelet agents as early as 4 days after 
injury, based on assessment of patient-specific risk for 
thrombosis and bleeding.
 
• Beta blockers (e.g., propranolol) may be considered 
for treatment of TBI patients with adrenergic stress or 
paroxysmal hyperactivity syndrome (“storming”), but 
adverse effects must also be considered. 
 
• Administer antibiotic surgical prophylaxis based on 
published guidelines, in conjunction with pharmacist 
consultation and assessment of ICU antibiograms. 
 
• Antibiotic prophylaxis is not recommended for EVD or 
intraparenchymal ICP monitor placement, skull-based 
fractures, CSF leaks, or pneumocephalus, because the 
prophylaxis may promote growth of drug-resistant 
bacteria.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 54 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
54
Posttraumatic Seizure Prophylaxis
Incidence of PTS: Early PTS (< 7 days) are correlated 
with severity of TBI injury, and patients with penetrating 
injuries have the highest incidence.1,2 Other high-risk 
patients include those who experience an immediate PTS 
or have depressed skull fractures, SDH, ICH, GCS < 10, or 
cortical contusions.3 Early PTS is also associated with TBI 
morbidity and mortality, and increased risk of developing 
post traumatic epilepsy (PTE).4,5 Findings from an RCT 
reported early PTS incidence of 14.2% in the placebo group, 
as compared to 3.6% of patients assigned to phenytoin.3  
However, early seizure prophylaxis did not prevent PTE, 
highlighting the need for a contemporary randomized 
clinical study.
PTS prophylaxis: Consider the use of ASM prophylaxis for 
7 days following TBI to prevent early PTS if risk factors are 
present; however, its use for more than 7 days to prevent 
late PTS is not recommended. Seizure prophylaxis is not 
recommended in TBI patients  without intracranial bleeding, 
or in patients with isolated traumatic subarachnoid 
hemorrhage.6,7 
Currently the most studied ASMs for PTS are 

(fos)phenytoin, levetiracetam, and valproic acid. Of these, 
phenytoin and levetiracetam appear to be similar in safety 
and efficacy for early PTS for patients at risk.8 However, 
the incidence of early PTS in these studies was low, 
and superiority of one drug over the other could not be 
determined. 
 
• Phenytoin is an older ASM that requires therapeutic 
drug monitoring to assure target concentrations are 
achieved. It is usually monitored 24 hours after initial 
dosing and once more during the 7 days of prophylaxis 
in TBI patients. However, phenytoin has many drug-
drug interactions, as well as potentially severe adverse 
drug reactions (ADRs). Phenytoin is also highly bound 
to albumin, so monitoring albumin and free phenytoin 
concentrations is essential to guide dosing adjustments. 
If laboratory assays for free phenytoin are not available, 
correction of total phenytoin concentrations can be 
calculated.9,10 


--- Page 55 (LEFT) ---
 
• Levetiracetam is an ASM with a better pharmacokinetic 
profile and minimal ADRs relative to phenytoin. 
However, it was observed to have associated behavioral 
ADRs in both pediatric and adult patients, particularly 
those with TBI.11-15 Pyridoxine 50–100 mg daily 
supplementation may limit these behavioral ADRs.16 
 
• Valproic acid is not recommended for early PTS 
prophylaxis due to an increased risk of death compared 
to phenytoin.17 
Do not continue PTS prophylaxis for more than 7 days in 
patients with no clinical or EEG seizure activity, or with 
seizure activity only within the first 24 hours postinjury. 
Seizure prophylaxis may be continued if seizure activity 
occurs beyond 24 hours or if the patient was previously 
receiving medication for a known seizure disorder.
Anticoagulant Management in TBI Patients 
Anticoagulant reversal: Consider anticoagulant reversal 
for patients with TBI who were taking an anticoagulant 
medication prior to admission, in order to allow them to 
safely undergo emergent surgery and/or to help prevent 
hematoma expansion. A specific reversal agent is generally 
recommended for each available oral anticoagulant 
medication. If the last dose of a DOAC was within the 
past 8–12 hours (or the INR is elevated ≥ 1.5 for patients 
receiving warfarin), the benefits of a reversal agent will 
most likely outweigh the risks. 
When prescribing four-factor prothrombin complex 
concentrates (4PCCs), some providers choose to use fixed 
doses of 1500 to 2500 units rather than using weight-based 
dosing strategies for anticoagulant reversal. Lower doses 
of 4PCC (10–20 units/kg) are suggested for patients with 
an INR 1.5–1.9, as higher doses (> 2000 to 3000 units) 
were associated with increased VTE risk in patients with 
nontraumatic ICH.18,19  
Note: If 4PCC is not available and fresh frozen 
plasma (FFP) is administered, approximately 8–16 
units of FFP are equivalent to approximately 20–50 
units/kg of 4PCC. The lowest achievable INR for FFP 
alone is approximately 1.5–1.7; the mean intrinsic INR 
of FFP is 1.1, but it can range from 0.9–1.3.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 55 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
55
Specific anticoagulant reversal recommendations for 
patients with life-threatening bleeding (all etiologies) 
are published by the Neurocritical Care Society/Society 
of Critical Care Medicine, American Heart Association, 
and American Society of Hematology.20-22 Acute clinical 
management of TBI patients admitted on oral anticoagulant 
medications includes the following:
 
• Discontinuation of the anticoagulant 
 
• Determination of the DOAC type, dose, time of last dose 
 
• Determination of the impact of DOAC on surgical 
intervention and reversal strategies, when possible 
Laboratory assays are not readily available for DOAC-
specific quantitative measurements of anti-Xa activity or 
DOAC concentrations, nor is there a definitive therapeutic 
range for DOAC concentrations.23 More common clinical 
laboratory measurements that may be elevated if a DOAC 
was recently administered and have clinically relevant 
concentrations include the following: 
 
• An activated partial thromboplastin time in patients on 
dabigatran (thrombin inhibitor)
 
• Elevations of prothrombin time and activated partial 
thromboplastin time in patients on Xa inhibitors 
Normal values may not rule out potential therapeutic DOAC 
concentrations.20,22-24 
Note: Do not delay reversal therapy while waiting for 
laboratory results in emergent situations when the 
patient is at high risk for bleeding.
A medical history is very helpful to determine if 
comorbidities may increase DOAC concentration or prolong 
DOAC exposure (e.g., advanced age, renal dysfunction, 
renal failure or dialysis dependence, and drug interactions). 
TEG may be helpful for qualitative assessment of clot 
strength and fibrinolysis, but evidence is lacking for its 
use to support quantitative determination of therapeutic 
DOAC concentrations.23,25,26 Note: TEG results may not be 
accurate in patients receiving massive transfusion therapy. 
A summary of reversal strategies for oral anticoagulation 
agents can be found in Table 7. 


--- Page 56 (LEFT) ---
Table 7. Anticoagulation Reversal Strategy for Patients with TBI Needing Emergent Surgery19,20-22,27 
Oral Anticoagulant Agent
Reversal Strategy
Warfarin
 
• 2.5–10 mg of IV vitamin K and:
 
– If INR is 1.5–1.9, give 15 units/kg 4PCC IV
 
– If INR is 2–3.9, give 25 units/kg 4PCC IV
 
– If INR is 4–6, give 35 units/kg 4PCC IV
 
– If INR is > 6, give 50 units/kg 4PCC IV
 
– 1500 units 4PCC (fixed dose)
 
• Recheck INR 1 hour after 4PCC given, if INR is > 1.4, consider administering 2–4 units of 
FFP
 
• Recheck INR 6–8 hours after 4PCC. If INR is > 1.4, administer another 2.5–10 mg of IV 
vitamin K
 
• If the last dose was administered < 2 hours earlier, consider activated charcoal
DOACs 
(rivaroxaban, apixaban, edoxaban)
 
• Andexanet alfa
 
– If last dose was > 7 hours, administer 400 mg IV bolus followed by 480 mg IV 
infusion
 
– If last dose was < 7 hours, administer 800 mg IV bolus followed by 960 mg IV 
infusion
 
• If andexanet alfa is not available, use 25–50 units/kg of 4PCC or a fixed dose of 2000 
units
 
• If the last DOAC dose was > 18–24 hours prior to the bleed, a reversal agent may not be 
beneficial
Thrombin inhibitor (dabigatran)
 
• If the last dose was administered < 2 hours earlier, consider activated charcoal
 
• Administer two consecutive doses of 2.5 g of idarucizumab IV, with each dose being 
infused over 10 minutes
 
• If the last dose was > 24 hours prior to the bleed, a reversal agent may not be beneficial
 
• Consider dialysis in patients with renal failure
 
• If idarucizumab is not available, 4PCC or single factor prothrombin complex concentrate 
PCC 50 unit/kg may be considered
Patients requiring therapeutic anticoagulation prior 
to admission continue to have an underlying risk of 
thrombosis. Therefore, consider VTE prophylaxis with 
subcutaneous heparin or LMWH to prevent further risk 
of thrombosis in the acute period off anticoagulants. Also 
consider the benefit versus harm of reversal based on 
bleeding risk and risk of thrombosis from the underlying 
disease.
Restarting anticoagulation: The available evidence is 
insufficient to recommend the optimal timing to restart 
anticoagulation in patients at moderate to high risk for 
thromboembolic events (e.g., mechanical valve or left 
ventricular assist device patients, history of VTE in the last 
3 months) but not at a high risk for rebleeding. However, 
consider restarting anticoagulation earlier than in lower-
risk patients (e.g., patients with atrial fibrillation and lower 
CHA2DS2-VASc scores, spontaneous ICH, VTE more than 3 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 56 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
56
months prior). Available guidelines suggest waiting 2 weeks 
or less for patients at high risk and 7–8 weeks for low-risk 
patients, but not more than 90 days after the bleeding 
event. However, safe restart of anticoagulant medications 
may occur significantly sooner, especially if traumatic 
intracranial bleeding is less significant and/or stable on 
repeat CT imaging.22,28 This guidance is based on available 
clinical evidence, and it is dependent on patient-specific 
thrombosis and bleeding risk factors. 
Note: High-risk warfarin patients receiving high 
doses of vitamin K for reversal (> 2.5 mg) appear to 
have similar time and magnitude of INR reduction, 
but the vitamin K (a fat-soluble vitamin) will likely 
delay warfarin’s therapeutic effect for several weeks 
after restart.29 In such cases, anticoagulation using 
LMWH or unfractionated heparin is needed until the 
effects of the vitamin K have worn off.


--- Page 57 (LEFT) ---
Antiplatelet Agent Management in TBI 
Patients
Reversal of antiplatelet agent effects: The reversal 
of antiplatelet agent effects in patients with traumatic 
ICH remains controversial. Few relevant RCTs exist, 
and conflicting data were reported about the impact 
on hematoma expansion or neurological outcomes.30-34 
A recent meta-analysis of low-quality data showed no 
difference in hematoma expansion or need for neurosurgical 
intervention in patients on single antiplatelet agents when 
compared to patients on no therapy.35 Additionally, the 
most common treatments for reversal of antiplatelet effects 
(platelet transfusions and desmopressin) are associated 
with adverse effects that may cause further complications 
and worse outcomes. A recent study of patients with 
traumatic ICH found no between-group differences 
in progression of hemorrhage or rate of neurosurgical 
intervention in transfusion versus no-transfusion groups.36 
However, a trend toward increased ICU LOS (adjusted 
odds ratio 1.59, 95% CI 0.74–3.40) and in-hospital death 
(adjusted odds ratio 3.23, 95% CI 0.48–21.74) was found in 
those receiving a platelet transfusion.36 Studies evaluating 
the combination of desmopressin and transfusion also 
demonstrated no benefit in hematoma progression or 
mortality.37 It is important to note that patients receiving 
antiplatelet agents who have a low platelet count and 
undergo invasive procedures (e.g., craniotomy, insertion of 
a ventricular drain, or insertion of an intraparenchymal ICP 
monitor) may benefit from preprocedural transfusion of 
platelets to achieve some degree of circulating functional 
platelets to promote procedural hemostasis. Postoperative 
platelet transfusion is not routinely recommended, because 
antiplatelet medications may continue to affect the 
functionality of transfused platelets. Patients on preinjury 
antiplatelet agents without additional risk factors are not 
recommended to receive platelet transfusions for this 
reason alone. 
Important factors to consider when deciding whether 
to administer therapies reversing preinjury antiplatelet 
agent effects include antiplatelet agent characteristics 
and antiplatelet activity monitoring results. Antiplatelet 
agents are categorized as reversible or irreversible. 
Irreversible agents have effects throughout the platelet 
lifespan (approximately 8–20 days). Transfused platelets 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 57 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
57
are also inhibited by these agents until the irreversible 
agents are eliminated from the blood stream, at about 
3–5 times the half-life of the agent.20,38,39 The antiplatelet 
agents that have active metabolites (e.g., clopidogrel and 
ticagrelor) have longer antiplatelet activity. Point-of-care 
platelet function assays are recommended as an adjunct 
to standard laboratory and/or coagulation monitoring in 
patients with suspected platelet dysfunction from preinjury 
antiplatelet therapy. Platelet function tests help identify 
patients who may benefit from reversal therapies and 
decrease the potential risk of thrombosis from unnecessary 
treatment.38-40
Current guidelines suggest that all patients discontinue 
antiplatelet agents in the acute period postinjury. For 
patients who require a neurosurgical procedure, consider 
one single-donor apheresis unit of platelets (equivalent to 
6 pooled units or 1 random-donor unit per 10 kg of body 
weight).20,40 Desmopressin (0.4 mcg/kg IV) was also 
suggested for consideration alone or in addition to a platelet 
transfusion for neurosurgical patients who received aspirin, 
clopidogrel, or ticagrelor. If desmopressin is administered, 
monitor for hyponatremia and treat as needed to achieve 
therapeutic sodium concentrations. Platelet function testing 
prior to transfusion is recommended whenever possible. 
For patients with normal platelet function or documented 
resistance, reversal therapies are not recommended. 
Additional research is needed to confirm benefit of these 
strategies in patients on preinjury antiplatelet therapies. 
Until more data are available, platelet transfusion and 
desmopressin are not recommended for patients with TBI 
who are not candidates for an invasive intervention.
Restarting antiplatelet agents: Consider the reason for 
antiplatelet therapy when determining if and when to 
restart antiplatelet therapy in patients after traumatic ICH. 
Studies support restarting antiplatelet therapy as early as 4 
days postinjury, because most posttraumatic hemorrhages 
occur within 3 days.41 Risks for acute and delayed ICH after 
restarting antiplatelet agents must be weighed against 
the morbidity of thrombotic complications that can have 
significant clinical consequences. Individual assessment of 
risk versus benefit must be made for restarting antiplatelet 
therapy.


--- Page 58 (LEFT) ---
Paroxysmal Hyperactivity Syndrome 
(“Dysautonomia,” “Sympathetic Storm”)
After TBI, patients can experience loss of inhibitory inputs 
to sympathetic feedback loops, resulting in symptoms such 
as hypertension, tachycardia, hyperpyrexia, tachypnea, or 
diaphoresis. These symptoms can be treated with a variety 
of agents, including beta blockers (BBKs), benzodiazepines, 
opioids, alpha-2 agonists, gabapentin, muscle relaxants, 
and baclofen. Low-quality data suggest that BBKs are 
associated with decreased mortality in patients with severe 
TBI who experience paroxysmal hyperactivity syndrome.42–44 
Most of the larger studies to date were observational or 
retrospective and had the following issues: inconsistency 
in the dose, beta blocking agent, and timing after injury; 
variability in patient characteristics and monitoring of 
adverse events; and whether BBKs were initiated or 
continued for other comorbidities versus only for TBI 
adrenergic stress.42–44 Propranolol, a nonselective BBK, has 
the most evidence to support its use for these indications. 
Monitoring for BBK adverse effects, such as bradycardia, 
hypotension, congestive heart failure, and bronchospasm, is 
essential, as these effects could be detrimental in the acute 
period post-TBI. 
Disorders of Consciousness
Patients with disorders of consciousness have a prolonged 
altered consciousness that can be characterized as coma, 
vegetative state/unresponsive wakefulness syndrome, or 
minimally conscious state based on their clinical exam. 
Following assessment and treatment of any confounding 
factors, amantadine (100–200 mg twice daily) is 
recommended for adults with vegetative state/unresponsive 
wakefulness syndrome or minimally conscious state (4–16 
weeks postinjury) to accelerate recovery and reduce 
disability.45,46 
Antibiotic Prophylaxis
Infection rates reported for patients undergoing ICP 
monitoring are highly variable. Rates are extremely low 
for intraparenchymal fiberoptic ICP monitors but may be 
significantly higher for EVDs. It is essential to develop and 
follow facility EVD and intraparenchymal bolt insertion and 
management protocols to decrease the risk of infectious 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 58 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
58
complications.47 Avoid the use of systemic antibiotic 
prophylaxis during parenchymal ICP monitor insertion 
and during the use of parenchymal or ventricular drains 
to reduce the risk for drug-resistant organisms.47,48 The 
most recent BTF and Neurocritical Care Society guidelines 
recommend the use of antimicrobial-impregnated 
catheters to prevent ventriculostomy-related infections 
during EVD monitoring, but these may not be available in 
every facility.47,49 A recent meta-analysis also suggested a 
substantial decrease in CSF infections (from 13.7% to 3.6%) 
when antimicrobial-impregnated catheters were used, as 
compared to a standard catheter group.50 Other strategies 
to reduce risk of infection include the following47:
 
• Remove ICP monitors and drains as early as clinically 
possible 
 
• Avoid routine EVD closed-system manipulation 
 
• Avoid CSF sampling unless clinically indicated
 
• Use aseptic technique 
Developing an EVD bundle with an insertion checklist, 
maintenance worksheet, dressing change procedure, and 
CSF sampling protocols and techniques is another strategy 
to reduce ventricular catheter-related infections.51
Avoid the use of antibiotic prophylaxis for traumatic 
skull-based fractures with CSF leaks or pneumocephalus 
due to the increased risk of promoting drug-resistant 
organism growth.52 In patients with open or penetrating 
skull fractures, consider treatment with broad-spectrum 
antibiotics with high blood-brain barrier penetration for a 
maximum of 3 days. Surgical debridement and irrigation are 
recommended as the standard of care, with perioperative 
antibiotics for not more than 24 hours. 
For surgical prophylaxis, cefazolin is the drug of choice 
for patients without methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus, unless the patient has a documented severe beta 
lactam allergy. Clindamycin or vancomycin are appropriate 
alternatives for those with a severe allergy to beta lactams. 
Clarify any antibiotic allergy preoperatively, when possible, 
given the superiority of cefazolin to the alternative options. 
Select the antimicrobial agent and dosing using published 
guidelines, in conjunction with pharmacist consultation, to 
optimize therapy. 


--- Page 59 (LEFT) ---
Older Adult Considerations
Antithrombotic/antiplatelet reversal and restart: 
Although older adult patients are more likely to receive 
anticoagulant and antiplatelet agents for comorbidities 
preinjury, available evidence does not suggest a difference 
in the risk of worse outcomes for older adult patients 
with TBI undergoing neurosurgery, despite the use of an 
anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent.53–55 The anticoagulant 
used and the number of antiplatelet agents, however, 
may impact the risk of worse outcomes. Time to restart 
of anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents is similar for all 
patients, regardless of age. 
Antibiotic prophylaxis: When selecting an antibiotic and 
dose for surgical prophylaxis or treatment, older adults’ 
physiologic, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic 
changes must be considered to help avoid unwanted 
adverse effects or toxicity. 
Pediatric Considerations
PTS prophylaxis: Pediatric data are in line with adult data 
as described for PTS prophylaxis. PTS may be more likely 
to occur in children less than 24 months old, those with 
severe injury (GCS < 8), and those suffering nonaccidental 
trauma.56–60 Despite the growing popularity of levetiracetam 
for PTS prophylaxis in children with TBI, evidence for its 
efficacy remains limited, with one recent observational 
trial demonstrating seizures in 17% of children treated with 
levetiracetam prophylaxis after TBI.61 As a result, either 
levetiracetam or (fos)phenytoin is appropriate for the 
recommended 7-day course of prophylaxis. Levetiracetam 
has a more favorable adverse effect profile, and therapeutic 
drug monitoring is not needed. The most commonly used 
dose of levetiracetam is 20–40 mg/kg/day, divided into 
two doses per day. Facilities are encouraged to develop 
multidisciplinary guidelines, with weight-based dosing, for 
pediatric PTS prophylaxis.
Antithrombotic/antiplatelet reversal and restart: As 
in adult patients, consideration of anticoagulant and 
antiplatelet reversal and restart in pediatric patients 
requires a thorough risk-benefit analysis for each individual 
patient before making clinical decisions.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 59 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
59
Antibiotic prophylaxis: Pediatric-specific data are limited 
regarding the use of antimicrobial prophylaxis outside of the 
perioperative period of EVD placement. Extrapolation of the 
adult data outlined above and previous studies in similar 
settings (e.g., hydrocephalus, ventriculoperitoneal shunt 
failure) support only the use of perioperative antimicrobials. 

BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 61 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
61


--- Page 62 (LEFT) ---
PROGNOSTIC ASSESSMENT AND 
FAMILY COMMUNICATION
KEY POINTS
 
• Functionally meaningful recovery (i.e., return to 
independence) may be possible even if consciousness is 
absent in the first 4 or more weeks and even in patients 
with a depressed mental status in the initial weeks 
following TBI. 
 
• Shared decision-making and acknowledgement 
of prognostic uncertainty are recommended 
communication approaches with families or surrogates. 
 
• Early withdrawal of life-sustaining therapies may lead to 
a self-fulfilling prophecy of poor outcome.
 
• Provide aggressive treatment to patients with severe TBI, 
including necessary surgical procedures, until the clinical 
team and the family or surrogate agree that further 
treatment of this type would not be aligned with the 
patient’s values and preferences. 
 
• A best practice is for each trauma center to develop a 
brain death determination policy derived from accepted 
standards and in alignment with local laws and policies.
Prognostic Assessment
Patients with severe TBI are at high risk for death and long-
term disability. No current prognostic indicators are precise 
enough to predict poor outcome (e.g., death, permanent 
unconsciousness, permanent loss of independence) with 
high certainty, especially not in the initial weeks postinjury. 
It is notable that functional outcomes acceptable to the 
patient and/or family can occur in up to 20% of patients 
who do not regain consciousness in the first 4 weeks 
after injury.1 Statistical models including factors available 
at the time of initial evaluation (e.g., age, neurological 
function including GCS score and/or pupillary reactivity, 
and neuroimaging findings) were developed and validated 
on large populations of patients with moderate to severe 
TBI. These models provide some general guidance about 
predicted outcome. The IMPACT and CRASH TBI statistical 
models are the most extensively validated and can produce 
point estimates with CI.2,3 Using these outcome models 
for exact prognostication on individual patients is not 
recommended. However, clinicians can use these models to 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 62 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
62
describe the predicted outcome probability as an “estimate 
only, subject to considerable uncertainty.” Experts in 
clinician-family communication recommend using language 
that brackets the range of possible patient outcomes by 
describing both the “best case” and “worst case,” as well 
as the “most likely,” scenarios as a way of expressing the 
uncertainty that is inherent in any prognostication.
Numerous studies including various neurocritical care 
conditions (e.g., intracerebral hemorrhage, global cerebral 
ischemia after cardiac arrest, and TBI) reported that 
worsened patient outcomes are associated with the 
reflexive default to early care limitations, including do-
not-resuscitate orders or withdrawal of life-sustaining 
therapies, independent of other patient characteristics.4–6 
Other studies found the ability to accurately and precisely 
prognosticate long-term outcome very early in a patient’s 
course after severe TBI is limited and frequently incorrect, 
especially in the first days after injury.7 Factors such as 
clinician perception of recovery likelihood and hospital-
specific practice patterns are sometimes implicated in the 
wide variability documented in early care limitations. These 
findings increase the concern that patients with severe TBI 
will have a “self-fulfilling prophecy” of poor outcomes when 
aggressive care is not provided.5,6,8 
Given these concerns, the best practice for patients 
with severe TBI is to provide a trial of aggressive therapy 
(e.g., surgical therapy, intensive care, and, if appropriate, 
placement of an intracranial monitor), if this treatment 
approach is consistent with patient and/or family goals of 
care. The previously advocated aggressive care minimum 
of 72 hours is arbitrary and not based in medical evidence. 
Recent studies reported the possibility of good outcomes 
in patients who remain unconscious for 4 or more weeks.1,9 
Exceptions include patients declared brain-dead, those with 
a preinjury advance directive indicating such interventions 
are not desired, and when families or surrogates wish to 
pursue comfort-based measures only. Thus, a longer period 
of treatment and observation is typically needed to increase 
certainty regarding prognosis for neurological recovery.10 
Age is often heavily weighted in prognostic decision-
making; however, do not use this factor in isolation or 
consider it as a valid singular reason for treatment-limiting 
decisions. Patient frailty, medical comorbidities, persistence 
of bilaterally unreactive pupils, and lack neurologic 


--- Page 63 (LEFT) ---
improvement are considerations, in addition to age and 
TBI severity. Take care to ensure that the pupillary light 
response is accurate and not confounded by medications 
or external injury (e.g., orbital trauma). For prognostic 
assessment, make sure to exclude conditions that confound 
the neurologic examination (e.g., sedative or analgesic 
medications, or clinical and nonconvulsive seizures). 
Standardized neurobehavioral rating scales such as the 
Coma Recovery Scale–Revised are reported to outperform 
qualitative bedside examination in detecting consciousness, 
so consider their use when evaluating prognosis.11 
Family Communication
Several recent studies highlighted the importance of 
patient-centered clinician-family communication in the 
ICU, including patients with severe TBI.12 These studies 
revealed that the way most clinicians communicate does 
not meet the needs of surrogate decision-makers. Making 
person-value congruent decisions on behalf of the patient 
must be the main focus for surrogates, yet the shock of 
sudden, unexpected TBI often leaves surrogates unprepared 
for decision-making. Shared decision-making is a person-
centered process during which the clinician and family work 
collaboratively to arrive at a decision that the patient would 
choose for themselves.13 It respects the clinician’s expertise 
while also integrating the patient’s values and preferences. 
This process is often aided by parties with dedicated time 
and long-term continuity available for these conversations 
(e.g., palliative care providers). While still undergoing 
evaluation in clinical trials, formal shared decision-making 
tools (decision aids) are being developed, and they have 
been deemed to be very helpful by families. These tools 
may be available in the future to support clinician-family 
communication related to patients with severe TBI. 
Communication between treating clinicians and 
surrogate decision-makers needs to include information 
about condition, treatment, and prognosis, as well as 
information on the journey ahead should long-term care 
be necessary and desired by patients and/or surrogates.14 
Involvement of providers with expertise in palliative care 
and symptom relief, as well as social services, is often 
helpful. Acknowledging concerns related to finances, family 
dynamics, pain, and disability are appropriate aspects of 
family and patient communication.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 63 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
63
Brain Death Determination
State law governs the determination of brain death. 
Standardized criteria for the determination of brain death 
exist and should be utilized.15 Criteria specifically include the 
following:
 
• Patients meet prerequisites including cardiopulmonary 
stability and absence of sedative effects 
 
• Patients have no response to central pain, absent 
brainstem reflexes, and an inability to breathe 
independently 
 
• Unless prerequisites for the clinical examination cannot 
be met, the clinical examination is a priority rather than 
an ancillary test, such as CBF assessment 
Each hospital needs to develop a defined brain death 
determination policy derived from accepted standards. 
When relevant, partnering with local organ procurement 
organizations is appropriate to offer families and patients 
the opportunity for organ donation.
Older Adult Considerations
An optimal prognostication model for older adult trauma 
patients with TBI has not been identified, and the IMPACT 
and CRASH TBI statistical models included patients with 
a mean age in the 30s.16 Multiple studies report preinjury 
frailty as the primary predictor of poor outcomes in older 
adult patients.17–20 The ACS TQIP Palliative Care Best Practices 
Guidelines recommend consideration of palliative care 
consultation for patients who screen as frail to facilitate 
advance care planning and goals of care discussions.21 
Pediatric Considerations
Prognostic considerations and family communication 
may be especially challenging in the case of pediatric 
TBI. Pediatric-specific prognosis tools do not perform 
adequately and are not recommended in the context of 
clinical care. Although direct comparison with TBI in adult 
populations is challenging, children may recover better than 
adults with similar injuries because of fewer comorbidities 
and greater capacity for brain plasticity. Indeed, a recent 
study found that good recovery (GOS-E score 7 or 8) was 
observed in 44% of children and 59% of adolescents 
with severe TBI.22 For this reason, aggressive therapy in a 
pediatric ICU is warranted in the vast majority of children 
with severe TBI. 


--- Page 64 (LEFT) ---
Little guidance exists for discussing prognosis with parents 
in early acute care following severe TBI in children. It 
is important to note that prognosis after abusive head 
trauma may be different from unintentional head trauma. 
Regardless of mechanism, providers play an important role 
in shaping parent reception and synthesis of prognostic 
information, which shapes families’ ability to participate in 
shared decision-making.23 Assessing and supporting parent 
needs during the acute phase of pediatric brain injury may 
improve parent and child outcomes by increasing parents’ 
ability to participate in hospital care and decreasing 
psychological distress. In cases where brain death is 
suspected, use pediatric-specific guidelines.24



--- Page 65 (LEFT) ---
EARLY MULTIDISCIPLINARY 
REHABILITATION IN ACUTE 
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
KEY POINTS
 
• Consider early multidisciplinary rehabilitation 
interventions on the day of admission, during the initial 
plan of care, and in conjunction with additional acute 
care decisions.
 
• Early multidisciplinary rehabilitation is safe, feasible, 
and cost-effective for patients with TBI who have not 
yet achieved medical stability and/or continue to require 
mechanical ventilation. It can mitigate complications of 
immobility, critical illness, delirium, and cognitive and 
psychological disorders.
 
• Include physical medicine and rehabilitation (PM&R) 
providers on the primary trauma team to enable follow-
up from day of admission.
 
• Include rehabilitation providers from the specialties 
of physical therapy (PT), occupational therapy (OT), 
speech language pathology (SLP), psychology/
neuropsychology, social work, and nursing.
 
• Refer the patient to specialized postacute rehabilitation 
when medically stabile and cleared for discharge from 
acute care.
 
• Patients with GCS 13–15 and prolonged physical, 
cognitive, and psychological complaints/symptoms need 
follow-up and referral to multidisciplinary rehabilitation.
Individuals sustaining TBI often experience complex 
neurological, medical, and polytrauma conditions requiring 
specialized and coordinated trauma team management. 
Promoting a positive recovery trajectory after TBI requires 
intentional and consistent collaboration between trauma 
and rehabilitation experts. The range of TBI severity can 
manifest as a spectrum of disturbed consciousness, 
physical limitations, and deficits in cognition, emotions, 
behavior, and function. Patients with TBI and a GCS of 13–15 
can experience acute or prolonged physical, cognitive, 
and neuropsychological symptoms. These symptoms can 
significantly impede daily function and impair participation 
in school and work activities if appropriate treatment and 
follow-up do not occur. 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 65 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
65
Critical illness after moderate or severe TBI can lead to 
prolonged periods of immobility and mechanical ventilation, 
increasing the risk of acquiring various comorbidities. 
Immobility negatively impacts all body systems.1 
Comorbidities can include venous thromboembolism, skin 
breakdown, contractures, deconditioning, delirium, and 
systemic syndromes such as ICU-acquired weakness.2,3 
These negative outcomes can persist for years.3,4 When 
evidence-based practice guidelines and protocols to 
manage pain, agitation, delirium, immobility, and sleep5 
(e.g., the ABCDEF bundle) were implemented in the 
ICU setting, the following patient outcomes were found: 
decreased mortality, decreased comorbidities, improved 
functional outcomes, and improved quality of life.6 Recent 
evidence supports early rehabilitation for patients with 
TBI to mitigate the negative impact of immobility, avoid 
secondary complications, and improve function.7
Multidisciplinary Rehabilitation 
Collaboration
The standards in the 2022 ACS Resources for Optimal Care 
of the Injured Patient direct trauma settings to provide 
the necessary staffing and resources to support early 
multidisciplinary rehabilitation and mobilization for patients 
with moderate to severe TBI, because these interventions 
foster recovery.8,9 Implementation of early multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation positively impacts LOS, reduces healthcare 
costs and resource use, and maximizes long-term functional 
outcomes.4 Rehabilitation specialists are experienced 
in providing early skilled evaluation and therapeutic 
interventions, objectively measuring the effectiveness of 
interventions, monitoring physiologic responses, advancing 
mobility, and guiding the gradual progression from low- to 
high-intensity modalities. These interventions facilitate 
stabilization, promote resumption of functional routines, 
and quantify patient progression and recovery. They 
can also support the trauma team through provision of 
evidence-based recommendations to guide treatment and 
discharge planning. 
The benefits of early rehabilitation are optimized when 
rehabilitation specialists are integrated into the trauma 
team. The multidisciplinary team needs to include, but 
is not limited to, PM&R physicians, nurses, PT, OT, SLP, 
psychologists/neuropsychologists, and social workers. It is 
recommended that the PM&R physician be a key member 


--- Page 66 (LEFT) ---
of the trauma team and be involved in the care of the 
patient from the day of admission. Early PM&R consultation 
is associated with greater mobility and cognitive 
independence, as well as a shorter acute care LOS.10 PM&R 
physicians can provide insight into outcome expectations 
and assist with prognostic communications. 
Rehabilitation for GCS 3–12
Early multidisciplinary rehabilitation interventions, provided 
by PT, OT, SLP, and nursing, can be implemented at the 
bedside while medical stability is being achieved. Treatment 
interventions through PT, OT, and SLP for patients with 
severe TBI presenting with consciousness impairments can 
focus on serial assessment of LOC, arousal optimization 
through various modalities of stimulation, environmental 
adaptation, and early mobilization.11 
Early mobilization: Early mobilization is defined as 
initiation of mobilization activities within the first 48 hours 
of injury, or as soon as neurosurgical, hemodynamic, and 
respiratory stability are achieved. A multitude of evidence 
demonstrates the efficacy of early mobilization.1,4,9,12 See Box 
6 for early mobilization activities.
Box 6. Early Mobilization Activities
 
• Passive range of motion 
 
• Active range of motion 
 
• Bed mobility 
 
• Leg ergometer 
 
• Neuromuscular electrical stimulation 
 
• Upright positioning 
 
• Sitting on edge of bed 
 
• Transfers 
 
• Out-of-bed mobility 
 
• Ambulation 
 
• Resistive exercise and engagement in activities of 
daily living
These interventions are an essential feature of early 
rehabilitation in the ICU to mitigate the deleterious impact 
of immobility, and they are safe and feasible.12,13 Simple 
interventions (such as passive movement and splinting) 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 66 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
66
can be implemented soon after admission to maintain joint 
mobility, reduce contractures, and reduce late burden of 
disability, even in patients who require ongoing treatment 
to control ICP or symptoms of paroxysmal sympathetic 
hyperactivity.14,15 Note: Use caution with more severely 
injured patients, as some interventions (e.g., mobilization 
out of bed) are only appropriate once hemodynamic 
and ventilatory stability are achieved and intracranial 
hypertension is no longer a significant issue.
Management of posttraumatic confusion and agitation: 
Moderate or severe TBI can present with posttraumatic 
confusion and agitation. Agitation is common, occurring 
in approximately 40% of patients.16 Acute use of 
benzodiazepines and typical antipsychotic medications 
is not recommended, because evidence suggests it can 
protract neurocognitive recovery. Atypical antipsychotics, 
as well as beta blockers such as propranolol, can be 
considered as an alternative in the acute phases of agitation 
to ensure safety for patients and staff.17 Multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation assessment and treatment of posttraumatic 
confusion and agitation can lead to development of 
behavioral modification approaches that can increase 
patient engagement in rehabilitation, minimize dependency, 
improve safety, and limit the need for pharmacologic 
interventions.18 
Interventions to promote resumption of self-care and 
activities of daily living (ADLs): Evaluation and treatment 
of dysphagia and other oral motor dysfunction by SLP and 
OT can improve nutritional intake and normalize eating 
routines. SLP and OT providers can also evaluate the need 
for alternative and augmentative communication systems to 
improve interpersonal interactions and patient autonomy.19 
Evidence from a RCT indicated that retraining for self-care 
and ADLs can be initiated during posttraumatic confusion, 
leading to faster improvement in functional independence 
and shorter LOS.20 
Rehabilitation for GCS 13–15
Up to 90% of all patients with TBI present with a GCS of 13–
15.21 Symptoms can last for months or years if left untreated 
and can result in disability. Patients with TBI and GCS of 
13–15 experiencing prolonged symptoms benefit from 
referral to a multidisciplinary rehabilitation team, usually 
provided in an outpatient or community setting, to support 


--- Page 67 (LEFT) ---
successful return to lifestyle, including work and school.21 
Rehabilitation specialists (sports medicine, PM&R, PT, OT, 
SLP, and neuropsychology) can provide a multidisciplinary 
evaluation and treatment recommendations to address 
persistent symptoms. 
Transition of Care Recommendations
A continuous chain of ongoing, individualized rehabilitation 
services is recommended beyond the ED, ICU, and 
acute care, including consideration for coordination and 
continuity of postdischarge care.22 In hospitalized patients, 
begin discharge planning for the next level of care early, 
following admission to the trauma setting. Postacute care 
options include long-term acute care hospitals, inpatient 
rehabilitation facilities, skilled nursing facilities, outpatient 
rehabilitation programs, and home- and community-based 
services.8 
Many patients with moderate or severe TBI have complex, 
ongoing medical needs that warrant continued medical 
and nursing management in an inpatient rehabilitation 
setting. The primary objective is to identify a discharge 
disposition that has proper support and expertise to meet 
the medical, functional, and neurobehavioral needs of the 
patient to promote continued recovery. A growing body of 
evidence suggests that patients with moderate or severe 
TBI who have access to specialized postacute rehabilitation 
services have a higher probability of achieving functional 
independence and ongoing improvement in long-term 
outcome.23,24 Planning the transition from inpatient care 
to outpatient, community-based services and resources 
is needed to ensure that patients and families have the 
necessary support to navigate the healthcare system and 
manage the patient’s recovery.25 
Older Adult Considerations
Little evidence exists to guide rehabilitation specifically 
for older adults with TBI. However, the Acute Care for 
Elders (ACE) unit model brings rehabilitation into the 
acute care setting. There is substantial evidence that the 
ACE model improves outcomes among older adults with 
acute medical conditions and that early mobilization 
improves outcomes among older adults with hip fracture.2,7 
Furthermore, most studies focusing on early mobilization 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 67 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
67
in adults needing critical care include patients over the 
age of 60 years.7,9 Together, the evidence supports early 
rehabilitation and early mobilization in the older adult TBI 
population. The acute care rehabilitation plan is ideally 
developed in consultation with a multidisciplinary team 
including geriatric medicine expertise, given older adults’ 
increased risk for medical complications, high burden of 
care, discharge to an institutional setting, and decreased 
quality of life.26 Key components of most ACE unit models 
include all of the rehabilitation strategies, including 
mobilization, delirium prevention, reduction of inappropriate 
medications/polypharmacy, and a focus on improving or 
maintaining function according to individual goals of care. 
Pediatric Considerations
Pediatric patients with TBI are at risk for developing critical 
illness comorbidities and complications related to sedation, 
immobility, and delirium. A recent review reported global 
dysfunction in 47% of children at the time of pediatric 
ICU discharge, with 76% reporting residual disabilities 6 
months after discharge.27 Multidisciplinary rehabilitation of 
pediatric patients needing critical care was found to be safe, 
with minimal adverse events; it minimized the number of 
days on mechanical ventilation, in bed, and in the ICU; and 
it reduced comorbidities and decreased delirium.28,29 It was 
also found to be effective in enhancing functional outcomes 
and lessening family and caregiver burden in pediatric and 
adolescent patients with TBI.30 Pay careful attention to 
patients with a preinjury comorbid mental or personality 
condition. Behavioral health medicine would be an 
appropriate addition to the multidisciplinary rehabilitation 
team to provide nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic 
recommendations.

--- Page 69 (LEFT) ---
POSTTRAUMATIC EPILEPSY
KEY POINTS
•	
Prior to acute care hospital discharge, educate families 
regarding the signs and symptoms of posttraumatic 
epilepsy (PTE), including subtle changes in level of 
consciousness.
•	
Screen patients for the presence of PTE during the 
follow-up period and arrange for further diagnostic 
testing when potential seizure activity exists.
•	
Patients developing PTE require treatment with ASM 
and referral to a clinician with expertise in management 
of PTE.
•	
Tailor the choice and duration of ASM therapy for PTE 
to individual patient characteristics, including seizure 
control, side effects, and other treatment options such 
as dietary modifications, neuromodulation, and other 
surgical approaches.
•	
The incidence of PTE increases over time, so perform 
ongoing screening of aging adults with a history of TBI, 
particularly in patients with risk factors for PTE.
Incidence
TBI accounted for about 4% of epilepsy patient diagnoses in 
earlier population-based studies,1,2 with other studies citing 
incidence as high as 20%.3,4 Late PTS is defined as seizures 
occurring more than 7 days postinjury. In general, ASM 
prophylaxis is not recommended to prevent late seizures, 
because the potential for adverse effects outweighs the 
risk of seizures for many patients.5–7 A significant portion 
of patients post-TBI develop PTE, which carries significant 
morbidity and mortality, and these patients require 
treatment.3,8,9 See Box 7 for factors associated with a higher 
risk for PTE.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 69 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
69
Box 7. Factors Associated with a Higher Risk for 
Posttraumatic Epilepsy
 
• Evacuated subdural hematoma (SDH)3,10 
 
• Contusion and SDH3 
 
• Evacuation of intraparenchymal hematoma10 
 
• GCS 3–810–12 
 
• Early seizures (particularly if delayed)10–12 
 
• Loss of consciousness or amnesia > 1 day3
 
• Greater time before able to follow commands 

(> 7 days)10 
 
• Skull fracture3,11 
 
• Unelevated depressed skull fractures10 
 
• Dural penetration10 
 
• Nonreactive pupil(s)10
 
• Parietal lesions10 
 
• Age > 65 years2 
 
• Female sex11 
 
• Family history of epilepsy11 
 
• History of depression12 
Furthermore, the cumulative risk (increased incidence over 
time) of PTE is greater after TBI, especially for severe TBI, 
but also for moderate TBI.2 For patients experiencing early 
seizures, PTE was reported to occur at higher rates among 
those with intracerebral hemorrhage and greater injury 
severity.2 Given that cumulative incidence of PTE increases 
over time, carefully monitor aging adult patients with a 
history of TBI, particularly those with risk factors for PTE. 
One population-based study found that mild TBI patients 
had a greater risk of seizures for up to 10 years, compared 
to the general population (relative risk 2.06–3.51, increasing 
by age group).11 However, PTE was found to be most 
common in patients with more severe injuries (relative risk 
4.91–12.24, depending on age group). For both mild and 
severe TBI, the risk of PTE was highest for those > 15 years 
of age, and the seizures mostly occurred earlier after injury.


--- Page 70 (LEFT) ---
Patients with high risk require family education regarding 
PTE signs and symptoms, diagnostic vigilance for its 
detection, and long-term follow-up after TBI by qualified 
professionals.13
Impact of PTE on Outcome 
It remains unclear whether patients with PTE have worse 
mortality and functional outcomes or if patient outcomes 
are primarily related to their injury severity (which also 
correlates with PTE development). Some recent studies 
demonstrated patient outcome effects related to PTE.
In a large prospective cohort study controlling for age, 
presenting GCS, and imaging findings, patients with 
PTE demonstrated significantly lower GOS-E scores and 
performed worse than controls on both the Rivermead 
Cognitive Metrics and Brief Symptom Inventory-18 scores.14 
This study relied upon a National Institutes of Health 
stroke-related epilepsy screening tool to identify self-
diagnosed seizures. The incidence of self-reported seizures 
in the TBI group was consistent with prior published 
reports, and the two control groups had no self-reported 
seizures, arguing for the reliability of this screening tool 
for the TBI population. Importantly, the study identified 
a correlation between self-reported seizures and poor 
functional outcomes, as well as persistent posttraumatic 
symptoms.14 Other studies have reported higher mortality in 
patients with TBI and PTE compared to TBI patients without 
PTE when controlling for other factors.4,15,16 This emerging 
evidence suggests that the presence of PTE confers 
additional morbidity and mortality to survivors of TBI.
Treatment Strategies
A discussion regarding the choice and duration of ASM 
therapy is beyond the scope of this BPG. Initiate treatment 
for patients experiencing a first late seizure after TBI. Refer 
the patient to a clinician with appropriate expertise in the 
management of PTE, because the likelihood of developing 
recurrent seizures after the first is as high as 86% by 2 
years postinjury.8 The choice and duration of ASM therapy 
for those with PTE must be tailored to individual patient 
characteristics, including but not limited to seizure control, 
side effects, and options for other types of treatment (e.g., 
dietary modifications, neuromodulation, or other surgical 
approaches).
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 70 (RIGHT) ---
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
70
Older Adult Considerations
Older adults have a higher risk of falls than younger adults, 
and TBI due to a fall is reported to have the greatest risk 
for PTE, regardless of TBI severity.17 The risk of PTE is also 
increased in older adults due to comorbidities that impact 
the risk of seizures (e.g., stroke and dementia). The effects 
from ASM drug-drug interaction due to polypharmacy 
can complicate this further.18,19 Selecting the ASM with the 
fewest adverse cognitive effects and drug-drug interactions 
is recommended for management of PTE in the older adult 
population.
Pediatric Considerations
While children are at higher risk for early seizures than 
adults after TBI,20 the development of PTE is less common 
in the pediatric population, except in cases of abusive head 
trauma.21 ASM prophylaxis is not effective for prevention of 
late-onset seizures in children.22 Refer children who develop 
late seizures after TBI to a practitioner with both pediatric 
and epilepsy expertise, such as a pediatric neurologist.


--- Page 73 (LEFT) ---
MANAGEMENT OF PATIENTS WITH 
GLASGOW COMA SCALE (GCS) SCORE 
OF 13–15
KEY POINTS
 
• Although many patients with TBI and GCS 13–15 fully 
recover over a relatively short period, a sizeable subset 
have persistent symptoms that negatively impact their 
ADLs.
 
• It is estimated that TBI goes undetected and 
undiagnosed in an estimated 50% of patients presenting 
to the hospital ED with GCS 13–15 after injury.
 
• Integration of decision support tools and clinical 
practice guidelines into the standard clinical workflow is 
recommended to identify TBI in patients with GCS 13–15 
and to facilitate proper evaluation and treatment. 
 
• Follow the broader recommendations of this updated 
BPG for the acute management of patients with TBI 
having a GCS 13–15, including diagnostic testing, 
individualized treatment, discharge instruction, and 
outcome assessment. 
 
• Educate patients with GCS 13–15 about their injury 
and recommend outlets for follow-up care for those 
who experience persistent symptoms. Discuss timing 
of return to activities (e.g., work, school, and driving), 
and deliver individualized treatment to restore them to 
maximal functional capacity.
Incidence
Of the nearly 5 million patients seen in US hospital EDs 
annually with suspected TBI, approximately 90% have a 
GCS score of 13–15, or what has historically been classified 
as mild TBI.1,2 This level of injury is also representative of 
over 80% of all TBIs among US military service members,3,4 
and millions of athletes worldwide are affected each year 
by sport-related concussion.5 Practice guidelines and other 
helpful resources assist clinicians in the diagnosis and 
management of patients with TBI and GCS 13–15.6,7
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 73 (RIGHT) ---
POSTACUTE CARE
Detection and Diagnosis 
The acute management of patients with TBI and GCS 13–15 
presents several challenges. Most notably, establishing the 
diagnosis in the ED relies heavily on the subjective report of 
the patient’s signs and symptoms. However, patient history 
and symptom reporting in the ED are often unreliable due to 
impairment and can be impacted by numerous factors other 
than head injury, such as the following:
 
• Confounding drug or alcohol intoxication 
 
• Co-occurring orthopaedic injury 
 
• Pain management treatment 
 
• Inherent uncertainties in gathering accurate injury 
history, symptomatology, or mechanism8 
Great variability can be found in impairment severity, even 
within the continuum of GCS 13–15 (e.g., a GCS 15 patient 
with normal neuroimaging and only subtle deficit vs. a GCS 
13 patient with extensive pathology on imaging and more 
severe impairments). The high-volume, high-throughput 
setting of a hospital ED with primary focus on emergency 
conditions may not allow for extensive clinical testing (e.g., 
neurologic or neuropsychological testing) beyond physical 
examination and head CT to assist in the diagnosis of TBI 
patients with GCS 13–15. These challenges contribute, in 
part, to the fact that an estimated 50% of patients with 
TBI and GCS 13–15 go undetected and undiagnosed in the 
hospital ED each year.9–11 
Acute Management 
In the acute ED setting, the immediate priority when 
treating suspected brain trauma, including patients with 
TBI and GCS 13–15, is identifying those patients at risk for 
deterioration and potentially in need of urgent neurosurgical 
intervention. Most patients with TBI and GCS 13–15 have 
no traumatic intracranial lesions on head CT. However, 
higher rates of CT abnormalities are reported in patients 
treated at Level 1 trauma centers and in patients with lower 
GCS scores.12 Regardless, head CT remains the standard for 
identifying ICH in patients with TBI and GCS 13–15. Clinical 
decision rules exist regarding use of CT imaging for at-risk 
patients with TBI to reduce the number of unnecessary 
CT studies performed. Please refer to the Blood-Based 
Biomarkers section on page 15 regarding the use of 
neuroimaging and blood-based biomarker testing in the 
evaluation of patients with TBI and GCS 13–15. 


--- Page 74 (LEFT) ---
Prognosis and Outcome 
Common symptoms in patients with TBI and GCS 13–15 
include headache, dizziness, visuo-oculomotor difficulties, 
cognitive dysfunction, sleep problems, sensory dysfunction, 
psychological health problems, and others. Typically, 
symptoms are most severe acutely (within the first few 
days) and improve gradually over time. A significant 
percentage of patients achieve full recovery within a 
relatively short period (days to weeks), but at least half 
experience persistent cognitive, somatic, and psychological 
symptoms that negatively impact their normal life activities 
for months or years after injury.12,13 Approximately 50% of 
patients diagnosed with TBI and GCS 13–15 evaluated in the 
ED do not attain full recovery by 12 months after injury.12 
Combinations of injury (e.g., acute injury severity, pathology 
on CT, etc.) and noninjury factors (e.g., premorbid 
psychiatric history, neurologic vulnerability, social distress, 
etc.) are known to increase risk of prolonged recovery and/
or poor functional outcome in these patients. 
Follow-Up Care 
Provide patients with educational resources about their 
injury, expected recovery, and outlets for follow-up care. 
Patients who experience persistent symptoms or difficulties 
(i.e., longer than 2 weeks postinjury) may need more 
specific evaluation and treatment targeting their specific 
Box 8. Current Guidelines and Helpful Resources for Diagnosis, Evaluation, and Management of Patients with TBI and 
GCS 13–15
The American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine Diagnostic Criteria for Mild Traumatic Brain Injury. Arch Phys Med 
Rehabil. 2023 Aug;104(8):1343–1355. doi: 10.1016/j.apmr.2023.03.036.
Management of Concussion and Mild Traumatic Brain Injury: A Synthesis of Practice Guidelines. 2020 Feb;101(2):382–393. 
https://www.archives-pmr.org/article/S0003-9993(19)31305-X/fulltext. Accessed May 31, 2024.
Clinical Guidance for Pediatric Mild TBI. US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 2024. https://www.cdc.
gov/traumatic-brain-injury/hcp/clinical-guidance/?CDC_AAref_Val=https://www.cdc.gov/traumaticbraininjury/
PediatricmTBIGuideline.html. Accessed May 31, 2024.
VA/DoD Clinical Practice Guideline for the Management of Concussion-Mild Traumatic Brain Injury. US 
Department of Veterans Affairs, US Department of Defense. https://www.healthquality.va.gov/guidelines/rehab/mtbi/
mtbicpgfullcpg50821816.pdf. Accessed May 31, 2024.
Consensus Statement on Concussion in Sport—The 5th International Conference on Concussion in Sport Held in Berlin, 
October 2016. British Journal of Sports Medicine. 2017;51(11):838–847. https://bjsm.bmj.com/content/51/11/838.long. 
Traumatic Brain Injury: Progress and Challenges in Prevention, Clinical Care, and Research. Lancet Neurology. 2022 
Nov;21(11):1004–1060. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(22)00309-X.
Healthcare Provider Resources. US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 2024. https://www.cdc.gov/heads-up/
index.html. Accessed September 13, 2024.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 74 (RIGHT) ---
POSTACUTE CARE
symptoms. Supportive care and rehabilitative therapies 
are effective in treating patients with TBI and GCS 13–15 to 
restore maximum functional capacity. Systems for follow-
up care are admittedly lacking for these patients in the US 
and around the world. In addition to data demonstrating 
relatively low detection of patients with TBI and GCS 13–15 
in EDs, recent studies indicate that most patients do not 
receive helpful information resources at time of hospital 
discharge or any further evaluation and treatment of their 
injury, even when experiencing persistent symptoms.14 
When possible, such patients need to be seen by clinicians 
with expertise in the management of TBI. A multispecialty 
approach is ideal to address the multifaceted sequelae 
of TBI. Healthcare systems are encouraged to develop 
coordinated programs for postacute care of TBI patients.
Resources 
Consensus guidelines developed by the American 
Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine (ACRM), the CDC, 
the US Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of 
Defense, and the sports medicine community are available 
for the management of civilians, military service members, 
and athletes affected by TBI with GCS 13–15 (see Box 8). 
Providers responsible for the evaluation and management 
of these specific populations of patients with TBI and 
GCS 13–15 need to be familiar with existing guidelines and 
incorporate them into their clinical practice. 


--- Page 75 (LEFT) ---
Older Adult Considerations
Mild TBI, or TBI in patients with a GCS score of 13–15, 
occurs frequently in older adults, often resulting from a 
fall. Studies report that the majority of TBI in older adults 
(60%–80%) is associated with a GCS score of 13–15.15–17 
Unfortunately, little evidence exists to guide diagnostic 
or therapeutic decision-making for these injuries in older 
adults.18,19
The evaluation of an older adult patient with mild TBI may 
be significantly confounded by preinjury cognitive status. 
Additionally, for older adult patients, a discrepancy of 
observed GCS is often reported when compared to younger 
adult patients with similar anatomic injury.20,21 A GCS score 
and physical examination cannot reliably exclude significant 
intracranial pathology in an older adult; therefore, liberal 
imaging and observation are often recommended.22–24
While most older patients with these injuries recover 
well, TBI with a GCS score of 13–15 is reported to be 
an independent significant risk factor of death in older 
adults.17 Additionally, these injuries may result in long-term 
changes in self-perception and social life that can persist 
for years after injury.25 Such changes can lead to loss of 
independence and deterioration in quality of life. Older 
adults who have significant or persistent symptoms that do 
not improve often benefit from referral to highly specialized 
rehabilitation.26,27 
Pediatric Considerations
Approximately 30% of children with TBI and GCS 13–15 
will have persistent symptoms 1 month after injury.28 A 
recent large-scale observational study identified risk factors 
(e.g., history of physician-diagnosed migraine) and exam 
findings (e.g., answering questions slowly) associated 
with prolonged symptoms.28 Evidence from observational 
and intervention trials suggests that early reinstitution 
of physical activity and early return to school improve 
outcomes.29–32 Refer all children with TBI to their primary 
care clinician for management of return to school and 
return to activity. Follow-up in a subspeciality clinic, such 
as neurology or sports medicine, may be warranted in 
children with risk factors for prolonged recovery. Children 
with prolonged symptoms (i.e., persistent symptoms at 3 
months) may benefit from neuropsychological testing to 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 75 (RIGHT) ---
POSTACUTE CARE
assess the contribution of both TBI injury and noninjury 
factors and use this information to aid the patient’s return to 
school and ADLs.


--- Page 77 (LEFT) ---
OUTCOME ASSESSMENT AND 
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
KEY POINTS
 
• Perform a TBI outcome assessment using both global 
and multidimensional measures, including physical, 
cognitive, communication, behavioral, psychological, and 
well-being.
 
• To assure quality care benchmarking, identify patient-
specific factors indicating clinical decline or plateau 
associated with pathology requiring intervention or 
treatment, as well as clinical improvement that could be 
further facilitated by rehabilitation or other treatment. 
 
• Perform a TBI outcome assessment at multiple time 
points following injury (ideally, between 1 and 3 months, 
and again between 6 and 12 months) to identify 
postinjury clinical trajectories and intervene as needed 
to optimize recovery.
TBI affects multiple domains of function (e.g., physical, 
cognitive, communication, behavioral, psychological, and 
well-being), and it is a major cause of long-term disability. 
Different manifestations and patterns of impairments 
are patient-specific. TBI outcome trajectories are also 
heterogeneous, and these can range from improvement to 
deterioration over many years following injury. Increasing 
evidence suggests that significant functional recovery from 
TBI continues well beyond 6 months, extending 10 years or 
more postinjury.1 
Individuals hospitalized for TBI need clinical follow-up by 
medical providers with TBI expertise. Given the dynamic 
nature of the post-TBI course, with expectations for changes 
even years after injury, TBI-specific care needs may span 
months to years. Lifelong follow-up may be beneficial 
for many patients to optimize outcomes by addressing 
the screening, monitoring, and management needs of 
individuals living with chronic brain injury to promote their 
brain health.2 
Outcome Assessment
Comprehensive care of patients with TBI requires a 
multidimensional and longitudinal approach to outcome 
assessment. This facilitates accurate documentation of the 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 77 (RIGHT) ---
POSTACUTE CARE
scope of function changes across domains, identification 
of recovery trends over time, and determination of 
interventions needed to maximize good outcomes. 
It is recommended that healthcare professionals caring for 
patients with TBI be aware of different outcome assessment 
measures and their related strengths, limitations, and 
applicability. Care teams must be adept at interpreting 
the results of outcome assessments and intervening 
when needed. For example, place specific emphasis on 
monitoring for clinical decline given the relationship 
between TBI, medical, and psychiatric comorbidities (e.g., 
posttraumatic hydrocephalus, occult seizure, endocrine 
dysfunction, iatrogenic sedation, major depressive disorder, 
posttraumatic stress disorder, and neurodegenerative-
spectrum conditions).3–6 
Assessment methods have different strengths and 
weaknesses, and few can be applied across the full 
spectrum of TBI severity. A comprehensive brain injury 
outcome assessment needs to address physical, cognitive, 
communication, behavioral, psychological, and quality 
of life domains. The GOS-E is widely adopted for global 
assessment of function and outcome after TBI. Healthcare 
professionals administering and interpreting the GOS-E 
need to be familiar with its limitations (e.g., floor and ceiling 
effects and the broad range of function represented within 
discrete categories).7 Additionally, the different approaches 
to scoring (i.e., TBI-specific vs. TBI plus peripheral injuries) 
can lead to different ratings.7 Global functional outcome 
measures do not have the precision needed to characterize 
the heterogeneity of TBI sequelae. When possible, 
complement global assessment with a multidimensional 
assessment strategy that addresses additional domains of 
function to provide a more sensitive and comprehensive 
approach to TBI care.8
Meaningful outcome assessment requires multiple 
assessment periods to discern the individual’s status and 
recovery path. At a minimum, TBI patients of all severity 
need a serial standardized outcome assessment consisting 
of GOS-E administration, ideally between 1 and 3 months 
and again between 6 and 12 months following injury. 
The GOS-E is not appropriate for use during the index 
hospitalization. This recommendation is based on evidence 
that supports longitudinal monitoring for patients with TBI 


--- Page 78 (LEFT) ---
to define outcome trajectories suggesting improvement, 
prolonged plateau, or worsening that may indicate need to 
intervene to improve outcome.9 The recommended timeline 
is suggested to balance the need for serial assessment to 
acquire prognostically important trajectory data against 
clinical and operational feasibility. However, individual 
patients may be selected for more frequent monitoring. 
Outcome assessment is important both on the individual 
patient level and on the broader systems level. Following 
individual patient trajectories can help identify when 
recovery is not progressing as expected, thereby indicating 
the need for further evaluation and treatment. Data 
obtained at multiple time points aids the clinical team in 
determining if an individual has plateaued or declined. 
It can also inform decision-making about the need for 
further evaluation (e.g., imaging, laboratory evaluation, 
comprehensive neuropsychological assessment, and 
driver reevaluation) and treatment (e.g., inpatient 
rehabilitation, outpatient cognitive rehabilitation program, 
concussion clinic, and psychological counseling) services. 
Postdischarge assessments revealing plateau or decline 
may be an indication of medical or psychiatric conditions 
that are amenable to intervention or may indicate adverse 
environmental conditions. On a broader systems level, 
evaluation of observed versus expected patient outcomes 
weeks to months after they leave the hospital, within 
and across trauma programs, can help identify process 
improvement opportunities in the care delivery system. 
Older Adult Considerations
Older adult trauma patients with TBI are at greater risk for 
complications and poor outcomes after injury, compared 
to younger patients.10–13 These outcomes include longer 
hospital LOS,10 higher mortality,10,14,15 greater functional and 
cognitive decline,12,14,15 poorer health-related quality of life,12 
more readmissions to acute care,11 more complications,11 
and discharge to facilities other than home.11,16 Even with 
comparatively lower injury severity scores, older patients 
have the highest rates of hospitalization after injury, 
mortality, functional decline, and cost of care.13 Moreover, 
older adults are at higher risk of secondary complications, 
including VTE, hemorrhage,13,17 and neurodegeneration 
(all-cause dementia, Parkinson’s disease).18 In terms of 
recovery and disability trajectories after injury, a patient’s 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 78 (RIGHT) ---
POSTACUTE CARE
Functional Independence Measure motor score upon 
hospital discharge is a strong predictor of global disability 
as measured by the GOS-E after TBI.12,19 These statistics 
highlight the importance of quality improvement (QI) 
priorities during and after the acute care experience.
Frailty reflects biological aging,20 and it is a primary 
predictor of poor outcomes among older patients.11 This 
emphasizes the importance of frailty screening upon 
hospital admission as a crucial QI initiative at all trauma 
centers.16,21,22 Because of the range of poor outcomes among 
older patients, QI monitoring of outcomes after TBI is 
warranted with risk adjustment for patients’ frailty status. 
Frailty screening leads to increased consultation with an 
older adult service23 and higher palliative care referrals.21 
Screening also provides the opportunity for patient/
family education regarding measures to mitigate and delay 
functional decline.24 Lifestyle modifications to improve post-
TBI neurocognitive outcomes include exercise, adequate 
sleep, and nutrition.25 Focus rehabilitation strategies on 
increasing function, balance, coordination, and energy 
conservation.12
Pediatric Considerations
Children with TBI also require ongoing standard assessment 
following injury. Pediatric outcome assessment tools include 
but are not limited to the Functional Status Scale and the 
Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory. Healthcare professionals 
caring for pediatric patients with TBI need training to 
administer, interpret, and act upon outcome assessments 
specific to the pediatric population. Of all traumatic injuries 
in hospitalized children, 3% are due to nonaccidental 
trauma, with more than half of these including TBI, either 
independently or as polytrauma.26 Accurate diagnoses and 
close comprehensive outcome assessment are imperative 
for the optimal care of patients for whom social supports, 
including their home environment and caregivers, may 
change.


--- Page 79 (LEFT) ---

--- Page 80 (LEFT) ---
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY 
EDUCATION AND FOLLOW-UP
KEY POINTS
 
• Treat TBI as both an acute and chronic condition.
 
• Patients with TBI and their families need targeted 
education about brain injury, recovery, resources, and 
follow-up care to enhance safety, coping, follow through, 
and outcome.
 
• Healthcare professionals can benefit from TBI education 
to improve patient care and outcomes.
 
• Upon discharge from the acute care hospital, ensure that 
all patients with TBI have the opportunity to follow-up 
with a clinician experienced in managing TBI. This allows 
for further evidence-informed education, as well as 
longer-term screening, surveillance, and treatment as 
needed.
Across all demographic and socioeconomic strata, TBI 
remains a leading cause of disability worldwide.1 For many 
patients, TBI is a persisting and dynamic condition, not a 
one-time event.2 The enormous burden of this condition 
can have profound implications for patients, their families, 
and their communities. Patients who present with coma 
and severe TBI are known to need rehabilitation and long-
term chronic care. However, many of these patients do 
not receive rehabilitation or chronic care from a clinician 
experienced in managing TBI, and many do not receive any 
follow-up care because of criteria for healthcare eligibility 
and benefits. Based on US data gathered during the early 
2000s, it was estimated that only 13%–25% of persons 
hospitalized acutely with moderate, severe, or penetrating 
TBI received inpatient rehabilitation.3 
Among patients less severely injured, even fewer receive 
rehabilitation or a connection with a healthcare professional 
knowledgeable about TBI. Over the past decade, an 
increasing body of evidence indicates that patients 
presenting to trauma centers for evaluation and treatment 
of mild TBI (GCS 13–15) experience symptoms and 
impairments that persist beyond the acute and subacute 
phases of recovery, even though they often do not require 
intensive acute medical management or hospitalization.4 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 80 (RIGHT) ---
POSTACUTE CARE
Additionally, nearly 50% of this less severely injured patient 
population receives no education about their TBI injury at 
the time of discharge, and they have no form of postacute 
follow-up care or education.5 
While current TBI education platforms and resources can 
be improved and expanded, numerous resources exist (e.g., 
CDC, Model Systems, and BrainLine).6–8 TBI education can 
improve patient outcomes, and encouraging clinician and 
patient use of these existing resources is important.9 An 
important priority for trauma centers is the development of 
coordinated patient education and follow-up systems. 
Healthcare professionals need TBI education to be informed 
about recent data from large-scale studies demonstrating 
that long-term patient outcome may not mirror patient 
presentation. This highlights the need for follow-up patient 
care and education after TBI. Specifically, many patients 
with severe injuries can have good outcomes, while many 
patients with so-called mild injuries can experience 
persistent problems that negatively impact their life 
function. Healthcare professionals also need to be educated 
on patient TBI outcome differences related to sport-related 
TBI versus community-acquired TBI that results in transfer 
to a trauma center.
There is a significant shortage of TBI follow-up care systems 
in the US and worldwide. As a result, the majority of TBI 
patients do not receive adequate follow-up care.5 Many 
symptoms of TBI (e.g., headache, sleep disturbance, various 
forms of cognitive dysfunction, vestibular dysfunction, 
spasticity, weakness, sensory changes, decreased stamina, 
and others) need treatment to prevent disability and 
improve outcomes after TBI. Outcomes are improved with 
TBI follow-up and treatment by clinicians experienced in 
managing TBI.10 Trauma centers and community healthcare 
systems are encouraged to facilitate development of 
coordinated systems for postacute care for TBI patients 
with providers experienced in managing TBI. Peer-to-peer 
TBI support opportunities, such as TBI patient support 
groups, are also important for education and support for 
individuals and families to manage the challenges faced by 
their condition, treatment, and recovery.

--- Page 81 (RIGHT) ---
POSTACUTE CARE


--- Page 82 (LEFT) ---
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
THE MANAGEMENT OF 
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
IMPLEMENTATION 
AND INTEGRATION 
OF THE BEST 
PRACTICES 
GUIDELINES
--- Page 82 (RIGHT) ---


--- Page 83 (LEFT) ---
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTEGRATION OF THE BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
GAP ANALYSIS AND EDUCATION PLAN
KEY POINTS
 
• These best practices recommendations, based upon 
evidence and expert opinion, are intended as guidance to 
trauma centers for the care of patients with TBI. 
 
• The trauma medical director (TMD), trauma program 
manager (TPM), trauma liaisons, registrars, and staff 
have a leadership role in implementing the ACS TQP 
Best Practices Guidelines for the Management of Traumatic 
Brain Injury, supporting care of patients with TBI, and 
monitoring guideline compliance.
 
• A stakeholder workgroup, receiving its directives 
from the TMD and the trauma operations committee, 
implements the best practices recommendations. 
 
• The workgroup reviews the best practices 
recommendations and completes a gap analysis related 
to the trauma center’s current TBI care. 
Implementing recommended best practices in the trauma 
center begins with the TMD, TPM, trauma liaisons, and 
registrars as leaders and change agents. These individuals 
are responsible for the oversight, management, and 
continuous commitment to improving care within the 
trauma center and the trauma system, regardless of trauma 
center designation level. These leaders define the leadership 
structure, culture, and implementation processes for the 
BPG that foster stakeholder engagement. This process 
includes the following: 
 
• The brain injury guidelines interdisciplinary workgroup, 
with a defined leader and reporting structure, is charged 
with reviewing the TBI BPG and determining the need to 
complete a gap analysis that compares current trauma 
center practices to the recommendations in the ACS TQP 
Best Practices Guidelines for the Management of Traumatic 
Brain Injury.
 
• An educational plan is developed for the implementation 
of the trauma center’s TBI management guidelines and 
for sustaining the new practices.
 
• Documentation is integrated into the electronic medical 
record to facilitate reporting consistency and to track 
outcomes. 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 83 (RIGHT) ---
Performing a Gap Analysis
The brain injury guidelines interdisciplinary workgroup 
is charged with comparing current practices to those 
recommended in the BPG to identify gaps between the 
two. This gap analysis identifies opportunities to align 
the trauma center’s TBI management practices with the 
ACS TQP Best Practices Guidelines for the Management 
of Traumatic Brain Injury. Trauma centers that serve as a 
referral center for brain injuries may choose to not complete 
the full gap analysis but instead to review the guideline 
recommendations to identify potential opportunities for 
improvement. The workgroup, in conjunction with the 
trauma center’s operations committee, establishes the 
priorities for changes. Progress reports regarding the 
completion of these identified tasks are provided to the 
trauma operations committee. Refer to Table 8 for examples 
of gap assessment recommendations. 
Once the gap analysis is completed, the next step is to 
revise or develop the trauma center’s TBI management 
guidelines for the phases of care provided by the trauma 
center. The TBI management guidelines are reviewed and 
approved by the trauma operations committee and the 
TMD. The operations committee is responsible for the 
dissemination of and communication about the revised TBI 
management guidelines to individuals who participate in 
trauma care.
Interdisciplinary Education Plan 
Development
The next priority is development of an interdisciplinary 
education plan for the guidelines that define TBI 
management needs for each unit and phase of care. This 
education plan outlines the expectations for the various 
health professional roles involved in TBI assessment and 
management, as well as the specific tasks associated 
with assessment, documentation, interventions, and 
reassessment. Refer to Table 9 for education plan 
elements to consider for integration of TBI best practices 
recommendations.


--- Page 84 (LEFT) ---
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTEGRATION OF THE BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
Table 8. Gap Analysis for Traumatic Brain Injury Best Practices Guidelines
Management Guidelines
Met
Partially Met
Not Met
Priority
Comments
Adherence to published local or regional EMS field triage 
guidelines for TBI
Interfacility transfer guidelines and agreements for TBI patients
Standardized assessment and documentation of GCS 
components (eye, verbal, motor) across the prehospital and in-
hospital settings 
Serial neurologic assessment using GCS and pupillary light 
reactivity 
Resuscitation guidelines with TBI-specific emphasis on 
management of blood pressure, airway, and ventilation, 
including the use of endotracheal CO2 monitoring 
Trauma activation criteria including criteria for potential 
traumatic brain injuries
Specific imaging and reimaging recommendations for TBI 
Age-specific imaging protocols
Coordination of patient monitoring during diagnostic imaging
SIBICC or TQIP tiered management of ICP
ICP monitoring capability and indications
Analgesia and sedation management guidelines
Operative indications for brain injury management
Nutritional risk screening within 24 hours of admission, with 
corresponding plan for nutritional support 
Recommendations for early tracheostomy 
Coordination of early mobilization 
Concomitant injuries and their priority of coordination with TBI
Management of comorbidities and prevention of adverse 
hospital events associated with TBI 
Protocol for BCVI
VTE prophylaxis modalities and protocols
Anticoagulant reversal protocols for TBI patients
PTS prophylaxis protocols
Guidelines for patient and family discussion of prognostic 
uncertainty, goals of care, and functional recovery expectations 
Brain death determination protocol
Behavioral health acute stress support for the patient and 
family
Rehabilitation team role in the acute management of brain 
injuries and transition to rehabilitation services
TBI education materials for patients and families addressing 
recovery, long-term effects, and available community resources
Coordination of discharge from acute care to inpatient 
rehabilitation facility, when appropriate
Standardized follow-up for all TBI patients
Peer-to-peer TBI support opportunities for patients and 
families 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 84 (RIGHT) ---


--- Page 85 (LEFT) ---
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTEGRATION OF THE BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
Table 9. Educational Plan Elements for TBI Best Practices Recommendations
Education Elements
Priority for Education
Targeted Staff
Brain injury pathophysiology
Triage and transport of TBI patients
Standardized assessment of GCS and pupillary light response
Resuscitation of TBI patients, including blood
pressure, airway, and ventilation management
Imaging recommendations and monitoring during imaging
Utilization of blood-based biomarkers for TBI
Goals of directed care
Indications and timing of extracranial procedures
Role of ICP monitoring and neuromonitoring 
Tiered management of ICP (SIBICC protocol)
Review of rationale for surgical management 
Nutrition support in TBI patients
Pharmacotherapy for TBI patients including VTE prophylaxis, seizure 
prophylaxis, anticoagulation therapy, antiplatelet therapy, and other 
considerations 
Screening and management of BCVI	
Prognostic uncertainty and family communication regarding goals of care in TBI 
Management of patients with GCS score of 13–15
Patient education, follow-up, and outcome assessment
TBI epidemiology and outcome 
Quality indicators for PI
Trauma Survivors Network information
Considerations for older adult patients with TBI 
Considerations for pediatric patients with TBI 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 85 (RIGHT) ---


--- Page 86 (LEFT) ---
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTEGRATION OF THE BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
IMPLEMENTATION AND 

INTEGRATION INTO TRAUMA 

CENTER PERFORMANCE 
IMPROVEMENT
KEY POINTS
 
• The interdisciplinary workgroup defines elements of 
the ACS TQP Best Practices Guidelines for the Management 
of Traumatic Brain Injury to monitor through the trauma 
Performance Improvement and Patient Safety (PIPS) 
processes.
 
• After approval by the trauma PIPS committee, the 
approved elements are integrated into the existing 
trauma PIPS plan for compliance monitoring.
 
• The PI elements of the ACS TQP Best Practices Guidelines 
for the Management of Traumatic Brain Injury are 
integrated into the current structure and processes of 
the PIPS plans.
Regional System Integration
A regional system may choose to develop a regional 
collaborative to review and coordinate TBI care across 
the region. This collaborative initiative is interdisciplinary 
and needs to include both rehabilitation and psychosocial 
services. The TBI collaborative defines its priorities and 
focus, which may require regional data related to TBI and 
outcomes. 
Potential priorities for development of regional TBI 
guidelines and related regional commitments include the 
following:
 
• Prehospital care, field triage, and destination—requires 
the trauma center to share data related to TBI injury 
outcomes
 
• Early access to rehabilitation—requires the region to 
identify the various levels and types of rehabilitation 
services available
 
• Postacute follow-up for all TBI patients—requires the 
region to identify clinicians experienced in managing TBI
 
• Psychosocial and peer-to-peer support—requires the 
region to identify community resources for patients with 
TBI
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 86 (RIGHT) ---
Key Elements for the PI Processes
The interdisciplinary workgroup defines and 
recommends key elements of the ACS TQP Best Practices 
Guidelines for the Management of Traumatic Brain Injury 
for integration into the trauma PIPS processes. These 
recommendations are applicable to the facility’s trauma 
TBI admissions. This includes any direct admissions for 
the trauma or neurosurgical service. Please refer to Table 
10 for PI recommendations and outcome measures for 
TBI management. 


--- Page 87 (LEFT) ---
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTEGRATION OF THE BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
Table 10. Traumatic Brain Injury Management PI Recommendations
Performance Improvement Recommendations
Outcome Measure and Threshold
Documented facility guidelines for neurosurgical urgent 
evaluation 
Neurosurgical evaluation must occur within 30 minutes of request for the 
following injuries1:
 
• Severe TBI (GCS < 9) with head CT evidence of intracranial trauma
 
• Moderate TBI (GCS 9–12) with head CT evidence of potential 
intracranial mass 
 
• Neurologic deficit due to potential spinal cord injury
 
• GCS motor score < 6 
Consider prehospital transport of patients meeting listed 
criteria to the most appropriate trauma center with 
neurosurgical capability2 
 
• Skull deformity or suspected skull fracture
 
• Signs of basilar skull fracture
 
• Penetrating head injury
 
• Caregiver-reported change from baseline behavior in an infant/child 
following injury
 
• Significant intracranial injury (e.g., large SDH, EDH, IPH, IVH)
Consider transferring patients meeting listed criteria to a 
trauma center with neurotrauma expertise, where available 
(see Triage and Transport section on page 6)
 
• Displaced skull fracture 
 
• Suspected TBI (GCS score ≤ 15) and moderate to severe extracranial 
anatomic injuries, and/or inability to monitor for neurological 
deterioration when intracranial injury is present or suspected
Neurotrauma contingency plan is in place
Must be implemented when neurosurgery capabilities are encumbered or 
overwhelmed 
Monitoring of neurotrauma diversion is reported at least 
quarterly as part of the PIPS program, if neurotrauma diversion 
occurs
Diversion initiation (date/time) and discontinuation (date/time) are 
monitored and reported quarterly as part of the PIPS program 
Use of GCS individual components (eye, verbal, and motor 
scores) as the preferred method of measuring neurological 
status in TBI patients
Use of individual components of GCS in the prehospital and hospital 
settings, with frequent serial assessments and notation of changes
Documentation of individual GCS score components (eye, 
verbal, and motor scores) in the patient care report
All GCS individual components are documented
Pupil assessment documentation
 
• Clinical assessment is required 
 
• Consider use of quantitative pupillometry 
 
• Assessments repeated frequently and documented
Hemodynamics assessment documentation
 
• Age-specific measurement of hemodynamic status (blood pressure 
management) following acute TBI is required 
 
• Assessments repeated frequently and documented
 
• Standardized neurological assessment and documentation
Ongoing standardized neurological assessment and 
documentation 
 
• Assessments are repeated frequently and documented
Repeat imaging 
 
• Urgent repeat head CT scanning is indicated for a patient of any age 
with worsening changes on neurologic exam
 
• Repeat head CT is indicated in 6–12 hours after initial imaging when a 
patient of any age has a persistently altered mental status and initial 
CT showed traumatic abnormality
Appropriate timeliness and coordination of monitoring during 
imaging
Per individual facility
Consideration of blood-based biomarker testing for patients to 
reduce unnecessary CT imaging
Applies to patients ≥ 18 years of age with suspected TBI and a GCS of 
13–15 within 12 hours of injury
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 87 (RIGHT) ---


--- Page 88 (LEFT) ---
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTEGRATION OF THE BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
Performance Improvement Recommendations
Outcome Measure and Threshold
Monitoring to maintain optimal ICP goals
Refer to Table 4 on page 20: Goals of Treatment Recommended 
Parameters
Monitoring to maintain optimal CPP goal of 60–70 mm Hg
Refer to Table 4 on page 20: Goals of Treatment Recommended 
Parameters
Timeliness of ICP monitoring in TBI GCS ≤ 8
Recommended in comatose patients (GCS ≤ 8) if evidence of structural 
brain damage is seen on initial CT imaging, or polytrauma patients and in 
patients going to the operating room for acute injuries when clinical exam 
is limited 
ICP monitoring in TBI GCS > 8
Recommended in patients with structural brain damage with high risk for 
progression (e.g., large/multiple contusions) and in cases when knowing 
ICP might facilitate management of other issues (e.g., earlier extracranial 
surgery)
Monitoring treatment of brain tissue hypoxia 
Maintain PbtO2 ≥ 15 mm Hg
Timely utilization of continuous EEG monitoring for seizure 
detection and management 
Per individual facility
Surgical management
Time to operative intervention (may vary depending on resources)
Craniotomy < 4 hours after arrival for patients with operative 
indication, excluding ICP monitoring 
Ensure delayed craniotomy rates are monitored within the PI program
 
Early enteral (or parental) nutrition support to attain caloric 
replacement
Nutritional support is initiated within 3 days
Guidelines include alternate feeding method when EN is 
contraindicated
PN support is recommended when EN is contraindicated
Documented guidelines to identify TBI patients at elevated risk 
for nutrition deficiency
Guidelines for specific populations could include pediatric, geriatric, and 
patients with impaired mobility
Measures to prevent skin breakdown with nutrition plan and 
protection barrier
Assessment and interventions are documented
Monitoring of electrolytes
Glucose and sodium are monitored
Early mobilization or simple interventions (such as passive 
movement and splinting) are an integral part of rehabilitation 
These elements are implemented within the first 48 hours of injury
Timely endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation 
Indicated in TBI when patient has
 
• Reduced consciousness, GCS < 9
 
• Severe agitation
 
• Loss of airway protective reflexes 
Early endotracheal intubation may be indicated in patients with GCS > 8, 
particularly in the presence of thoracic and abdominal injuries 
 
• Optimal target range of PaO2 is 80–100 mm Hg 
Monitoring to maintain normoxia and normocapnia, including 
continuous endotracheal CO2 monitoring
 
• Optimal target range of PaCO2 without ICP elevation is 35–45 mm Hg
Timely tracheostomy placement 
Consider within 7 days of injury 
Extracranial BCVI imaging
Consider use of CT angiography to detect potential vertebral artery injury
Extracranial BCVI management and follow-up
Antithrombotic therapy and referral for follow-up are provided at 
discharge, if warranted
Initiation of anticoagulation or antiplatelet agents when no 
contraindications exist
Therapy may begin as early as 24 hours postinjury
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 88 (RIGHT) ---


--- Page 89 (LEFT) ---
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTEGRATION OF THE BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
Performance Improvement Recommendations
Outcome Measure and Threshold
Initiation of VTE prophylaxis
Nonoperative TBI**
 
• GCS 13–15 TBI: initiate within 24 hours 
 
• GCS 3–12 TBI: initiate within 48 hours
** Provided follow-up head CT indicates hemorrhage stability 
Operative TBI 
 
• Consider initiating or resuming 24–48 hours after surgery and if ICH 
is stable upon postop CT scan 
Monitor:
 
• Time to initiation 
 
• Pharmacologic agent used
Initiation of anticoagulant reversal
Refer to Table 7 on page 56 for anticoagulation reversal strategy for TBI 
patients needing emergent surgery
Initiation of seizure prophylaxis
Early (first 7 days only) prevention of PTS 
Documentation surrounding withdrawal of life-supporting 
treatment 
Ensure program is capturing the reason, date, and time of care withdrawal 
Documented guidelines for brain death determination
Per individual facility
Psychological support, TBI education, and resources provided 
to the patient and the family, starting at admission
Per individual facility
Plan available to patients for postacute care of TBI with GCS 
13–15, including educational resources and referral guidelines
Provide the following to patients with TBI and GCS 13–15:
 
• Educational resources about their injury
 
• Referral guidelines 
 
• Information regarding outlets for follow-up care for those who 
experience persistent symptoms
Concussion (GCS 13-15) care resources pertinent to the 
postacute injury period are available
A process is established with criteria identifying patients needing referral 
for concussion and TBI management services
Rehabilitation consultation
Rehabilitation consultation is ordered within a day of hospital admission
A multidisciplinary service team is a vital component of TBI 
management 
Multidisciplinary service team includes PM&R physician
Incorporation of evidenced-based guidelines to help manage 
pain and potential complications
Per individual facility; one example is the ABCDEF bundle
Rehabilitation includes a postacute phase for continuation 
when the patient is medically stabile and cleared for discharge 
from acute care
Patient is referred to specialized postacute rehabilitation 

--- Page 90 (LEFT) ---
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
THE MANAGEMENT OF 
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
APPENDIX A: 
ACRONYMS
--- Page 90 (RIGHT) ---


--- Page 91 (LEFT) ---
4PCC—four-factor prothrombin complex concentrates
ACE—Acute Care for Elders
ACEP—American College of Emergency Physicians
ACR—American College of Radiology
ACRM—American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine
ACS—American College of Surgeons
ADAPT—Approaches and Decisions in Acute Pediatric TBI 
Trial
ADLs—activities of daily living
ADR—adverse drug reaction
ASM—antiseizure medication
ATLS—Advanced Trauma Life Support
AUC—area under the receiver operating characteristic 
(ROC) curve
BBK—beta blocker
BCVI—blunt cerebrovascular injury
BPG—best practices guidelines
BTF—Brain Trauma Foundation
CBF—cerebral blood flow
CDC—Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
CI—confidence interval
CPP—cerebral perfusion pressure
CREVICE—Consensus-Revised Imaging and Clinical 
Examination
CSF—cerebrospinal fluid
CT—computed tomography
DOAC—direct-acting oral anticoagulants
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 91 (RIGHT) ---
APPENDIX A: ACRONYMS
ECMO—extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
ED—emergency department
EDH—epidural hematoma
EEG—electroencephalography
EN—enteral nutrition
EVD—external ventricular drain
FDA—Food and Drug Administration
FFP—fresh frozen plasma
FiO2—fraction of inspired oxygen
FOUR—Full Outline of UnResponsiveness
GCS—Glasgow Coma Scale
GOS—Glasgow Outcome Scale 
GOS-E—Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended
GFAP—glial fibrillary acidic protein
HRSA—Health Resources and Services Administration
ICH—intracranial hemorrhage
ICP—intracranial pressure
ICU—intensive care unit
INR—international normalized ratio
IPH—intraparenchymal hemorrhage
IV—intravenous
IVH—intraventricular hemorrhage
LMWH—low-molecular-weight heparin
LOC—loss of consciousness
LOS—length of stay


--- Page 92 (LEFT) ---
MAP—mean arterial pressure
MRI—magnetic resonance imaging
NPV—negative predictive value
OT—occupational therapy
PaCO2—partial pressure of carbon dioxide
PaO2—partial pressure of oxygen
PbtO2—partial brain tissue oxygenation 
PECARN—Pediatric Emergency Care Applied Research 
Network
PEEP—positive end-expiratory pressure
pGCS—pediatric version of Glasgow Coma Scale
PI—performance improvement
PIPS—Performance Improvement and Patient Safety
PM&R—physical medicine and rehabilitation
PN—parenteral nutrition
PPV—positive predictive value
PRx—cerebrovascular pressure reactivity index
PT—physical therapy
PTA—posttraumatic amnesia
PTE—posttraumatic epilepsy
PTS—posttraumatic seizures
QI—quality improvement 
RCT—randomized controlled trial
ROTEM—rotational thromboelastometry
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 92 (RIGHT) ---
APPENDIX A: ACRONYMS
S100B—S100 calcium-binding protein
SBP—systolic blood pressure
SDH—subdural hematoma
SIBICC—Seattle International Severe Traumatic Brain Injury 
Consensus Conference
SLP—speech language pathology
SpO2—oxygen saturation 
SWI—susceptibility-weighted imaging
TEG—thromboelastography 
TBI—traumatic brain injury
TMD—trauma medical director
TPM—trauma program manager
TQIP—Trauma Quality Improvement Program
TQP—Trauma Quality Program
UCH-L1—ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1
UFH—unfractionated heparin
US—United States
VTE—venous thromboembolism
WBCT—whole-body computed tomography


--- Page 93 (LEFT) ---
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
THE MANAGEMENT OF 
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
EXPERT PANEL
--- Page 93 (RIGHT) ---


--- Page 94 (LEFT) ---
CHAIR
Geoffrey T. Manley, MD, PhD
Professor and Vice Chairman of Neurological Surgery
Chief of Neurosurgery
Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital and 

Trauma Center
University of California, San Francisco

San Francisco, CA
WORK GROUP MEMBERS
Gregory W. Albert, MD, MPH, FAANS, FACS, FAAP
Lee and Bob Cress Endowed Chair in Pediatric Neurosurgery
Chief of Pediatric Neurosurgery, Arkansas Children’s 
Hospital
Professor of Neurosurgery, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences
Little Rock, AR
Gretchen M. Brophy, PharmD, BCPS, FCCP, FCCM, FNCS, 
MCCM
Professor of Pharmacotherapy & Outcomes Science and 
Neurosurgery
Virginia Commonwealth University
Medical College of Virginia Campus
Richmond, VA
Randall M. Chesnut, MD, FCCM, FACS, FAANS
Professor of Neurological Surgery, Orthopaedics, and Global 
Health
Director of Neurotrauma Services
University of Washington
Harborview Medical Center
Seattle, WA
Giuseppe Citerio, MD
Professor of Anesthesia and Intensive Care School of 
Medicine and Surgery
University of Milano-Bicocca
Director, Department of Neuroscience 
Director, Neurointensive Care Unit 
IRCCS Fondazione San Gerardo dei Tintori
Monza, Italy
Christine S. Cocanour, MD, FACS, FCCM
Associate Dean for Academic Advancements
University of California Davis School of Medicine
Professor of Clinical Surgery
Program Director, Surgical Critical Care Fellowship
Medical Director, Surgical Intensive Care Unit
University of California Davis Health
Sacramento, CA
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 94 (RIGHT) ---
94
EXPERT PANEL
Arman Dagal, MD, FRCA, MHA
Professor
Division Chief, Neuroanesthesiology and Perioperative 
Neurosciences
Program Director, Neuroanesthesiology Fellowship
Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative Medicine & 
Pain Management
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine
Miami, FL
Bradley A. Dengler, MD, FAANS, FACS
Associate Professor of Surgery 
Associate Professor of Neurology
Director, Military Traumatic Brain Injury Initiative 
Uniformed Services University
Program Director, Neurological Surgery National Capital 
Consortium
Bethesda, MD
Raquel C. Gardner, MD
Director of Clinical Research
Joseph Sagol Neuroscience Center
Sheba Medical Center
Ramat Gan, Israel
Joseph T. Giacino, PhD
ACRM Liaison to ACS COT
Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Harvard Medical School
Director, Rehabilitation Neuropsychology
Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital
Charlestown, MA
Flora M. Hammond, MD, FACRM, FAAPMR
Professor and Chair 
Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Indiana University School of Medicine
Indianapolis, IN
Odette Harris, MD, MPH
Professor, Neurosurgery
Paralyzed Veterans of America Endowed Professor of Spinal 
Cord Injury Medicine
Vice Chair, Diversity, Department of Neurosurgery
Director, Brain Injury
Stanford University School of Medicine
Deputy Chief of Staff, Rehabilitation
VA Palo Alto Health Care System
Stanford, CA


--- Page 95 (LEFT) ---
Gregory W.J. Hawryluk, MD, PhD, FRCSC
Neurosurgeon, Cleveland Clinic
Adjunct Associate Professor of Neurosurgery
Uniformed Services University
Medical Director and Scientific Advisory Board Chair
Brain Trauma Foundation
Fairlawn, OH
J. Claude Hemphill III, MD, MAS
Professor of Neurology and Neurological Surgery
University of California, San Francisco
Chief, Neurology Service
Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital
San Francisco, CA
Michael C. Huang, MD, FAANS
Health Sciences Clinical Professor
Department of Neurological Surgery
University of California, San Francisco
Chief of Neurosurgery Clinical Services
Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital & 

Trauma Center
San Francisco, CA
Peter Hutchinson, BSc, MBBS, FFSEM, FRCS(SN), PhD, 
FMedSci
Professor of Neurosurgery 
University of Cambridge
Honorary Consultant Neurosurgeon 
Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
Director of Clinical Research 
Royal College of Surgeons of England
England
Frederick Korley, MD, PhD
Professor and Associate Chair for Research
Department of Emergency Medicine
Scientific Director, Massey TBI Grand Challenge, Weil 
Institute
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, MI
Tiffany LeCroy, MSN, RN, CRRN, FNP-C, ACNS-BC, FARN
Chief Nursing Officer
Director of Intensive Care Unit and Comprehensive 
Rehabilitation Unit
Shepherd Center
Atlanta, GA
Angela Lumba-Brown, MD
Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine and Pediatrics
Stanford University School of Medicine
Pediatrics, Palo Alto Medical Foundation
Palo Alto, CA
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 95 (RIGHT) ---
95
EXPERT PANEL
Andrew I.R. Maas, MD, PhD
Emeritus Professor of Neurosurgery
Antwerp University Hospital 
University of Antwerp
Belgium
Amelia W. Maiga, MD, MPH
Assistant Professor of Surgery
Division of Acute Care Surgery
Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Nashville, TN
Armaan K. Malhotra, MD
Neurosurgery Resident
Division of Neurosurgery 
University of Toronto
Toronto, ON
Rebekah Mannix, MD, MPH
Senior Associate in Medicine
Division of Emergency Medicine
Children’s Hospital Boston
Harvard Medical School
Boston, MA
Cathy A. Maxwell, PhD, RN, FAAN
Professor of Nursing
Vanderbilt University School of Nursing
Nashville, TN
Michael McCrea, PhD, ABPP
Professor and Vice Chair
Department of Neurosurgery
Director, Center for Neurotrauma Research (CNTR)
Medical College of Wisconsin
Milwaukee, WI
David K. Menon, MBBS MD PhD FRCP FRCA FFICM 
FMedSci
Director of Research, University of Cambridge
Honorary Consultant, Neurosciences Critical Care Unit, 
Addenbrooke’s Hospital
Professorial Fellow, Queens’ College Cambridge
Department of Medicine
University of Cambridge
Cambridge, United Kingdom
Christopher P. Michetti, MD, FACS, FCCM
Chief of Trauma
Trauma Surgery Program Medical Director
University of Maryland Capital Region Medical Center
Largo, MD


--- Page 96 (LEFT) ---
Truman J. Milling Jr., MD
Clinical Professor
Department of Clinical Sciences
Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine
University of Houston
Houston, TX
Susanne Muehlschlegel, MD, MPH, FNCS, FCCM, FAAN
Professor (PAR) of Neurocritical Care
Departments of Neurology and Anesthesiology/Critical 
Care Medicine
Neurosciences Critical Care Division
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine
Johns Hopkins Medicine
Baltimore, MD
Brooke Murtaugh, OTD, OTR/L, CBIST
Occupational Therapist
Brain Injury Program Manager
Department of Rehabilitation Programs
Madonna Rehabilitation Hospitals
Lincoln, NE
David O. Okonkwo, MD, PhD
Professor of Neurological Surgery
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
Pittsburgh, PA
Tolu O. Oyesanya, PhD, RN
Associate Professor of Nursing
Duke University
Durham, NC
Mayur B. Patel, MD, MPH, FACS, FCCM
Vice Chair COT Post-Graduate Education Committee
Chief & Professor, Division of Acute Care Surgery
Ingram Chair in Surgical Sciences
Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Nashville, TN
Stacy Pelekhaty, MS RDN, LDN, CNSC
Senior Clinical Nutrition Specialist
R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center
University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center
Baltimore, MD
J. Adair Prall, MD, FAANS, FACS
Director, Neurotrauma Services
Department of Surgery
AdventHealth Littleton
Denver, CO
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 96 (RIGHT) ---
96
EXPERT PANEL
John Ragheb, MD
Division of Pediatric Neurosurgery
Chief, Department of Surgery
Nicklaus Children’s Hospital
Professor of Neurosurgery and Pediatrics
Affiliated Faculty 
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine
Miami, FL
P.B. Raksin, MD
Director, Neurosurgery Intensive Care Unit
John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Associate Professor of Neurosurgery
Rush University Medical Center
Chicago, IL
Claudia Robertson, MD, FCCM
Professor, Department of Neurosurgery
Baylor College of Medicine
Houston, TX
Bryce R.H. Robinson, MD, MS, FACS, FCCM
Chair, ACS COT Performance Improvement Patient Safety 
Committee
Chair, ACS COT Best Practices Guidelines Committee
Professor of Surgery
University of Washington
Harborview Medical Center
Seattle, WA
Guy Rosenthal, MD
Director of Neurotrauma and Neurocritical Care
Associate Professor of Neurosurgery
Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center
Jerusalem, Israel
Andres M. Rubiano, MD, PhD (c), FACS, IFAANS
Chair, Colombian Trauma Committee
Professor of Neurosciences and Neurosurgery
Universidad El Bosque, Bogota, Colombia
Chair, Neurological Surgery Service 
Vallesalud Clinical Network
Medical and Research Director 
Meditech Foundation
Cali, Colombia
Rachel M. Russo, MD, MS, NHDP-BC, FACS
Lt. Col., US Air Force, MC
Assistant Professor of Surgery
University of California Davis Health
Sacramento, CA
Assistant Professor of Surgery
Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences
Bethesda, MD


--- Page 97 (LEFT) ---
Angelle M. Sander, PhD, FACRM
Professor, H. Ben Taub Department of Physical Medicine 
and Rehabilitation
Baylor College of Medicine
Director and Senior Scientist, Brain Injury Research Center
TIRR Memorial Hermann
Houston, TX
Alfred Pokmeng See, MD
Assistant Professor
Department of Neurosurgery, Cerebrovascular Surgery and 
Interventions Center
Boston Children’s Hospital 
Harvard Medical School
Boston, MA
Deborah M. Stein, MD, MPH, FACS, FCCM
R Adams Cowley, MD Professor of Shock and Trauma 
University of Maryland School of Medicine
Director, Adult Critical Care Services
University of Maryland Medical Center
Baltimore, MD
Eiichi Suehiro, MD, PhD
Professor
Department of Neurosurgery
International University of Health and Welfare, School of 
Medicine
Narita, Japan
Kelli G. Talley, PhD, MPH, OTR/L
Assistant Professor
Department of Rehabilitation Counseling
Virginia Commonwealth University
Richmond, VA
Phiroz E. Tarapore, MD, FAANS
Associate Professor, Department of Neurological Surgery
Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital
University of California, San Francisco
San Francisco, CA
Shelly D. Timmons, MD, PhD, FACS, FAANS 
Chair and Professor of Neurosurgery 
Sanford J. Larson, MD, PhD Endowed Chair 
Medical College of Wisconsin 
Department of Neurosurgery
Milwaukee, WI
Alex Valadka, MD, FAANS, FACS
Professor, Department of Neurological Surgery 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
Chief of Neurosurgery 
Parkland Memorial Hospital
Dallas, TX
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 97 (RIGHT) ---
97
EXPERT PANEL
Steve Willis, PharmD, BCPPS
Clinical Pharmacist Specialist, Pediatrics
Residency Program Director, PGY-1 Pharmacy Practice
Rhode Island Hospital, Hasbro Children’s Hospital
Providence, RI
David W. Wright, MD, FACEP
Professor & Chair
Department of Emergency Medicine
Emory University School of Medicine
Attending, Grady Marcus Trauma and Emergency Care 
Center
Adjunct Faculty, Wallace H. Coulter, Department of 
Biomedical Engineering
Adjunct Faculty, Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing
Adjunct Faculty, Rollins School of Public Health
Atlanta, GA
John K. Yue, MD
Resident Physician
Department of Neurological Surgery
University of California, San Francisco
San Francisco, CA
Esther Yuh, MD, PhD
Professor
Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging
University of California at San Francisco
San Francisco, CA
ACS TRAUMA QUALITY PROGRAMS 
MEDICAL DIRECTOR
Avery B. Nathens, MD, PhD, FRCS, FACS 
Medical Director of Trauma, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre 
Professor of Surgery, University of Toronto 
De Souza Chair in Trauma Research 
Toronto, ON
BPG LEAD NURSE CONSULTANT
Robbie Dumond, MHA, BSN, TCRN, AEMT
Vice President of Operations
UCHealth University of Colorado Hospital
Aurora, CO
 


--- Page 98 (LEFT) ---
BPG NURSE PARTNERS
Tracy Cotner-Pouncy, MSN, RN, TCRN
Senior Director, Trauma Services
UCHealth, North Region
Loveland, CO
Christina McRoberts, MBA, BSN, RN
Pediatric Trauma Coordinator
Hasbro Children’s Hospital
Providence, RI
Danielle Sherar, MBA, RN, TCRN
Executive Director of Trauma, Acute Care Surgery and 
Forensic Services
JPS Health Network
Fort Worth, TX
Matt Wells, MBA, BSN, RN, CEN, CPEN, TCRN
Trauma Program Manager
Pali Momi Medical Center
Aiea, HI
CLINICAL EDITOR
Jane Ball, RN, DrPH 
Pediatric Nursing and Trauma System Consultant 
Havre de Grace, MD
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY	
--- Page 98 (RIGHT) ---
98
EXPERT PANEL


--- Page 99 (LEFT) ---
American College of Surgeons 

633 N. Saint Clair St. 

Chicago, IL 60611-3295
 
facs.org/cot
Trauma
Programs
American College of Surgeons
--- Page 99 (RIGHT) ---

