Source: Page 158 (LEFT)
Page: 158, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 331
--------------------------------------------------
165
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
Table 11.7 - Sensitivity analysis for head CT scanning rules 
 
 
Additional cost per patient (£) - Canadian 
seven point rule compared with current 
(pre-2003) UK system 
Baseline 
-17.72 
Sensitivity to unit costs* 
-38.05, 4.62 
Sensitivity to proportion of patients scanned** 
-25.55, -9.89 
Sensitivity to both unit costs and proportions 
-46.89, 11.96 
* Lower limit: High skull X-ray cost, High admission cost, Low CT cost. Upper limit: Low skull X-ray 
cost, Low admission cost, High CT cost (see table 11.5) 
** Lower limit: using confidence limits that favour the Canadian seven point rule.  Upper limit: 
using confidence limits that favour the UK system (see Table 11.3). 
 
This cost analysis was limited because the frequency of testing and admission for each strategy 
could only be estimated approximately given the currently available data. The Canadian head 
rule is less costly than the current (pre-2003) UK system because it is assumed that it reduces the 
number of admissions. In fact Stiell et al 25 have not yet put their model into practice, therefore 
the admission rate figure is provisional. For this model it was assumed that only those with a 
positive CT scan (ICH or other complication) would be admitted.  If the number of admissions were 
somewhat higher then this strategy would not be the least cost strategy. Assuming all other 
parameters in the model remain the same, the five point Canadian head rule is least cost if it 
reduces in-patient admissions by at least 37%. The seven point Canadian head rule appears to 
be more expensive even if admissions were entirely eliminated. 
Another model parameter which was estimated very approximately was the level of CT use in the 
current system, because CT scanning use was lower during the Nee et al (1993) study than in the 
present UK system. 
The sensitivity of the results to these particular assumptions is presented in a two-way sensitivity 
analysis (Table 11.8).