Source: Page 12 (LEFT)
Page: 12, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 680
--------------------------------------------------
19
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
patients) are taking the experimental drug or a placebo (dummy treatment). The 
purpose of ‘blinding’ or ‘masking’ is to protect against bias. See also Double blind 
study, Single blind study, Triple blind study.  
C-spine 
Cervical spine or bony part of the neck 
Case-control study 
A study that starts with the identification of a group of individuals sharing the same 
characteristics (for example, people with a particular disease) and a suitable 
comparison (control) group (for example, people without the disease). All subjects 
are then assessed with respect to things that happened to them in the past, for 
example, things that might be related to getting the disease under investigation. 
Such studies are also called retrospective as they look back in time from the outcome 
to the possible causes.  
Case report (or 
case study) 
Detailed report on one patient (or case), usually covering the course of that person’s 
disease and their response to treatment.   
Case series 
Description of several cases of a given disease, usually covering the course of the 
disease and the response to treatment. There is no comparison (control) group of 
patients.  
Causal 
relationship 
Describes the relationship between two variables whenever it can be established 
that one causes the other. For example there is a causal relationship between a 
treatment and a disease if it can be shown that the treatment changes the course or 
outcome of the disease. Usually randomised controlled trials are needed to ascertain 
causality. Proving cause and effect is much more difficult than just showing an 
association between two variables. For example, if it happened that everyone who 
had eaten a particular food became sick, and everyone who avoided that food 
remained well, then the food would clearly be associated with the sickness. 
However, even if leftovers were found to be contaminated, it could not be proved 
that the food caused the sickness – unless all other possible causes (for example, 
environmental factors) had been ruled out. 
Cerebrospinal 
fluid  
(CSF) 
 
 
Clear fluid which is continuously being produced and absorbed by and in the brain, 
flowing in the ventricles (cavities) within the brain and around the surface of the 
brain and spinal cord 
 
CSF otorrhea 
Escape of CSF from the brain into the ear canal 
Cervical spine 
The cervical spine is the area of the vertebral column commonly refered to as the 
neck.  
The cervical spine is made up of seven vertebrae, refered to by 'C', appended with 
an identifying number. The number indicates the level of the spine in which the 
particular vertebra is located. The top vertebra is C1, the lowest C7 
 
Cervico-dorsal 
junction 
The junction between the bottom of the cervical spine and the top of the dorsal (or 
thoracic) spine. 
Clinical audit 
A systematic process for setting and monitoring standards of clinical care. Whereas 
‘guidelines’ define what the best clinical practice should be, ‘audit’ investigates 
whether best practice is being carried out. Clinical audit can be described as a 
cycle or spiral. Within the cycle there are stages that follow a systematic process of 
establishing best practice, measuring care against specific criteria, taking action to 
improve care, and monitoring to sustain improvement. The spiral suggests that as the 
process continues, each cycle aspires to a higher level of quality.  
Clinical decision 
rule 
A clinical decision rule/clinical prediction rule is generated by initially examining, 
and ultimately combining, a number of variables to predict the likelihood of a 
current diagnosis of a future event. Sometimes, if the likelihood is sufficiently high or 
low, the rule generates a suggested course of action1. 
Clinical 
effectiveness 
The extent to which a specific treatment or intervention, when used under usual or 
everyday conditions, has a beneficial effect on the course or outcome of disease 
compared to no treatment or other routine care. (Clinical trials that assess 
effectiveness are sometimes called management trials.) Clinical ‘effectiveness’ is not 
the same as efficacy. 
Clinical impact 
The effect that a guideline recommendation is likely to have on the treatment, or 
treatment outcomes, of the target population.