Source: Page 18 (LEFT)
Page: 18, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 694
--------------------------------------------------
25
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
selection bias than in experimental studies.   
Occipital condyle  
The articulation point between the skull and the first cervical vertebra. 
Odds ratio 
Odds are a way of representing probability, especially familiar for betting. In 
recent years odds ratios have become widely used in reports of clinical studies. 
They provide an estimate (usually with a confidence interval) for the effect of a 
treatment. Odds are used to convey the idea of ‘risk’ and an odds ratio of 1 
between two treatment groups would imply that the risks of an adverse outcome 
were the same in each group. For rare events the odds ratio and the relative risk 
(which uses actual risks and not odds) will be very similar. See also Relative risk, Risk 
ratio.  
Outcome 
The end result of care and treatment and/ or rehabilitation. In other words, the 
change in health, functional ability, symptoms or situation of a person, which can be 
used to measure the effectiveness of care/ treatment/ rehabilitation. Researchers 
should decide what outcomes to measure before a study begins; outcomes are then 
assessed at the end of the study. 
Paediatric 
Pertaining to children and infants 
Paraesthesia 
Abnormal sensation such as burning or tingling due to a disorder of the sensory 
nervous system. 
Penetrating head 
injury 
Head injury where an object penetrates the scalp and skull and enters the brain or 
its lining. 
Performance bias 
Systematic differences in care provided apart from the intervention being 
evaluated. For example, if study participants know they are in the control group 
they may be more likely to use other forms of care; people who know they are in 
the experimental group may experience placebo effects, and care providers may 
treat patients differently according to what group they are in. Masking (blinding) of 
both the recipients and providers of care is used to protect against performance 
bias. 
Periorbital 
haemotoma 
Bleeding around or behind the eyes.  
Pilot study 
A small scale ‘test’ of the research instrument. For example, testing out (piloting) a 
new questionnaire with people who are similar to the population of the study, in 
order to highlight any problems or areas of concern, which can then be addressed 
before the full scale study begins. 
Placebo 
Placebos are fake or inactive treatments received by participants allocated to the 
control group in a clinical trial which are indistinguishable from the active treatments 
being given in the experimental group. They are used so that participants are 
ignorant of their treatment allocation in order to be able to quantify the effect of 
the experimental treatment over and above any placebo effect due to receiving 
care or attention.  
Placebo effect 
A beneficial (or adverse) effect produced by a placebo and not due to any 
property of the placebo itself.  
Positive predictive 
value 
The proportion of individuals with a positive test result 
who actually have the disease. 
Power 
See Statistical power. 
Primary care 
Healthcare delivered to patients outside hospitals. Primary care covers a range of 
services provided by General Practitioners, nurses and other healthcare 
professionals, dentists, pharmacists and opticians.  
Probability 
How likely an event is to occur, for example, how likely a treatment or intervention 
will alleviate a symptom. 
Prognostic factor 
Patient or disease characteristics, for example, age or co-morbidity, which influence 
the course of the disease under study. In a randomised trial to compare two 
treatments, chance imbalances in variables (prognostic factors) that influence patient 
outcome are possible, especially if the size of the study is fairly small. In terms of 
analysis these prognostic factors become confounding factors. See also Prognostic 
marker.  
Prognostic marker 
A prognostic factor used to assign patients to categories for a specified purpose – 
for example, for treatment, or as part of a clinical trial, according to the likely 
progression of the disease. For example, the purpose of randomisation in a clinical 
trial is to produce similar treatment groups with respect to important prognostic 
factors. This can often be achieved more efficiently if randomisation takes place 
within subgroups defined by the most important prognostic factors. Thus if age was 
very much related to patient outcome then separate randomisation schemes would