Source: Page 156 (LEFT)
Page: 156, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 448
--------------------------------------------------
163
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
The NHS reference cost database contains accounting cost data from every NHS hospital trust. 
Each trust reports an average cost per hospital episode, categorised by type of visit (for 
example, out-patient, elective in-patient, etc) clinical specialty and Healthcare Resource Group 
(HRG). Accounting practices do vary between hospitals but the costs should reflect the full cost of 
the service (including direct, indirect and overhead costs), as described in the NHS Costing 
Manual.  
Sensitivity analyses were conducted to test the sensitivity of the results to the model parameters: 
x for the unit costs, the inter-quartile range was used,  
x for the probabilities, the confidence intervals were used. 
11.3 
Diagnosis of intracranial haematoma in patients with a minor/mild head injury 
CT represents the gold standard in the diagnosis of intracranial haematoma following head 
injury. However, the number of CT scanners and trained staff in the NHS is limited and the cost of 
testing substantial. Therefore CT scanning in the NHS is currently restricted mainly to those with 
significant loss of consciousness (either on arrival or after deterioration) and those with a skull 
fracture, as diagnosed through skull X-ray. The question arises as to whether CT scanning would 
be cost-effective (that is, value for money) if extended to a larger group of patients. 
11.3.1 
Literature review 
Six studies have evaluated the overall impact of different diagnostic testing strategies for 
patients with minor/mild head injury. The UK studies date back to the early 1980s (pre-CT 
scanning) and advocate that both skull X-ray and in-patient observation be reduced to save 
costs.178-180 
Three overseas studies have compared CT scanning with alternative strategies.  Ingebrigtsen and 
Romner 181 found that in-patient observation was not necessary with CT. Therefore CT screening 
was less costly than skull X-ray screening in Norway because it reduced in-patient stays. 
Shackford et al 182 and Stein et al 183 had already come to the same conclusion for the USA.  
However, Stein et al also considered the potential use of X-ray screening without in-patient 
observation and not surprisingly found this to be the least costly strategy. 
Essentially all three studies have concluded that a system of CT scanning high risk patients 
followed by discharge after a negative CT scan is less costly than skull X-ray and admission for 
all of these patients. However, this comparison is not strictly relevant to the context of England 
and Wales because the current system does not admit all patients. 
The published evidence from the six studies is not ideal because: 
x the resource use and cost for CT scanning is not specific to the UK NHS context or is dated; and