Source: Page 15 (LEFT)
Page: 15, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 668
--------------------------------------------------
22
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
which direct the clinician through a succession of possible scenarios, actions and 
outcomes.  
Diagnostic study 
A study to assess the effectiveness of a test or measurement in terms of its ability to 
accurately detect or exclude a specific disease.  
Double blind study 
A study in which neither the subject (patient) nor the observer (investigator/clinician) 
is aware of which treatment or intervention the subject is receiving. The purpose of 
blinding is to protect against bias. 
Drowsiness 
A state of impaired awareness associated with a desire or inclination to sleep.  
Dura Mater  
The thick lining of the brain and spinal cord 
Economic 
evaluation 
Comparative analysis of alternative courses of action in terms of both their costs 
and consequences. 
Effectiveness 
See Clinical effectiveness. 
Efficacy 
The extent to which a specific treatment or intervention, under ideally controlled 
conditions (for example, in a laboratory), has a beneficial effect on the course or 
outcome of disease compared to no treatment or other routine care.  
Elective 
Name for clinical procedures that are regarded as advantageous to the patient but 
not urgent.  
Emergency 
Department (ED or 
A&E) 
A clinical department in a district general or teaching hospital which has trained 
staff and equipment able to receive, resuscitate, investigate and initially manage 
the full spectrum of emergencies. Most units accept patients of all ages, some are 
restricted to adults, others to children. All should be open at all times and all its 
facilities should be available at all times. 
Emergency 
Department 
Clinician 
A medically qualified member of an emergency department or an appropriately 
trained nurse working in an emergency department. 
Empirical 
Based directly on experience (observation or experiment) rather than on reasoning 
alone. 
Epidemiology 
Study of diseases within a population, covering the causes and means of    
prevention. 
European 
Paediatric Life 
Support course 
(EPLS) 
 The EPLS provider course is intended to provide training for multi-disciplinary 
healthcare professionals in the early recognition of the child in respiratory or 
circulatory failure and the development of the knowledge and core skills required 
to intervene to prevent further deterioration towards respiratory or 
cardiorespiratory arrest.  (see http://www.resus.org.uk) 
Event rate 
The proportion of patients in a group for whom a specified health event or outcome 
is observed. Thus, if out of 100 patients, the event is observed in 27, the event rate 
is 0.27 or 27%. Control Event Rate (CER) and Experimental Event Rate (EER) are the 
terms used in control and experimental groups of patients respectively. 
Evidence based 
clinical practice  
Evidence based clinical practice involves making decisions about the care of 
individual patients based on the best research evidence available rather than 
basing decisions on personal opinions or common practice (which may not always be 
evidence based). Evidence based clinical practice therefore involves integrating 
individual clinical expertise and patient preferences with the best available 
evidence from research 
Evidence table 
A table summarising the results of a collection of studies which, taken together, 
represent the evidence supporting a particular recommendation or series of 
recommendations in a guideline. 
Exclusion criteria 
See Selection criteria. 
Experimental 
study 
A research study designed to test if a treatment or intervention has an effect on the 
course or outcome of a condition or disease - where the conditions of testing are to 
some extent under the control of the investigator. Controlled clinical trial and 
randomised controlled trial are examples of experimental studies. 
Experimental 
treatment 
A treatment or intervention (for example, a new drug) being studied to see if it has 
an effect on the course or outcome of a condition or disease. 
External validity 
The degree to which the results of a study hold true in non-study situations, for 
example, in routine clinical practice. May also be referred to as the generalisability 
of study results to non-study patients or populations. 
Extradural (or 
epidural) 
A collection of blood between the skull inner surface and the dura mater caused by 
damage to the blood vessels running on the surface of the dura mater – often