Source: Page 19 (LEFT)
Page: 19, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 721
--------------------------------------------------
26
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
be used for different age groups. This process is known as stratified random 
allocation.  
Prospective study 
A study in which people are entered into the research and then followed up over a 
period of time with future events recorded as they happen. This contrasts with 
studies that are retrospective.  
Publication bias 
Studies with statistically significant results are more likely to get published than 
those with non-significant results. Meta-analyses that are exclusively based on 
published literature may therefore produce biased results. This type of bias can be 
assessed by a funnel plot. 
P value 
If a study is done to compare two treatments then the P value is the probability of 
obtaining the results of that study, or something more extreme, if there really was 
no difference between treatments. (The assumption that there really is no difference 
between treatments is called the ‘null hypothesis’.) Suppose the P-value was 
P=0.03. What this means is that if there really was no difference between 
treatments then there would only be a 3% chance of getting the kind of results 
obtained. Since this chance seems quite low we should question the validity of the 
assumption that there really is no difference between treatments. We would 
conclude that there probably is a difference between treatments. By convention, 
where the value of P is below 0.05 (that is, less than 5%) the result is seen as 
statistically significant. Where the value of P is 0.001 or less, the result is seen as 
highly significant. P values just tell us whether an effect can be regarded as 
statistically significant or not. In no way do they relate to how big the effect might 
be, for which we need the confidence interval.  
Qualitative 
research 
Qualitative research is used to explore and understand people’s beliefs, 
experiences, attitudes, behaviour and interactions. It generates non-numerical data, 
for example, a patient’s description of their pain rather than a measure of pain. In 
healthcare, qualitative techniques have been commonly used in research 
documenting the experience of chronic illness and in studies about the functioning of 
organisations. Qualitative research techniques such as focus groups and in depth 
interviews have been used in one-off projects commissioned by guideline 
development groups to find out more about the views and experiences of patients 
and carers.  
Quality adjusted 
life years (QALYS) 
A measure of health outcome. QALYS are calculated by estimating the total lifeyears gained from a treatment and weighting each year with a quality of life 
score. 
Quantitative 
research 
Research that generates numerical data or data that can be converted into 
numbers, for example clinical trials or the national Census which counts people and 
households. 
Quasi 
experimental 
study 
A study designed to test if a treatment or intervention has an effect on the course or 
outcome of disease. It differs from a controlled clinical trial and a randomised 
controlled trial in that: 
a) the assignment of patients to treatment and comparison groups is not done 
randomly, or patients are not given equal probabilities of selection, or  b) the 
investigator does not have full control over the allocation and/or timing of the 
intervention, but nonetheless conducts the study as if it were an experiment, 
allocating subjects to treatment and comparison groups.  
Random allocation 
or Randomisation 
A method that uses the play of chance to assign participants to comparison groups 
in a research study, for example, by using a random numbers table or a computergenerated random sequence. Random allocation implies that each individual (or 
each unit in the case of cluster randomisation) being entered into a study has the 
same chance of receiving each of the possible interventions.  
Randomised 
controlled trial 
A study to test a specific drug or other treatment in which people are randomly 
assigned to two (or more) groups: one (the experimental group) receiving the 
treatment that is being tested, and the other (the comparison or control group) 
receiving an alternative treatment, a placebo (dummy treatment) or no treatment. 
The two groups are followed up to compare differences in outcomes to see how 
effective the experimental treatment was. (Through randomisation, the groups 
should be similar in all aspects apart from the treatment they receive during the 
study.)  
Rehabilitation 
A programme of clinical and vocational services with the goal of returning patients