Source: Page 16 (LEFT)
Page: 16, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 625
--------------------------------------------------
23
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
haemorrage 
associated with a fracture of the skull. The underlying brain injury may not be 
severe initially but the increasing pressure caused by the bleeding inflicts further 
damage. 
Extradural space 
The space on the outer side of the dura mater.  
Extrapolation 
The application of research evidence based on studies of a specific population to 
another population with similar characteristics. 
Focal Neurological 
Deficit 
A neurological deficit restricted to a particular part of the body or a particular 
activity 
A graphical display of results from individual studies on a common scale, allowing 
visual comparison of results and examination of the degree of heterogeneity 
between studies. 
Forest plot 
Funnel plots are simple scatter plots on a graph. They show the treatment effects 
estimated from separate studies on the horizontal axis against a measure of sample 
size on the vertical axis. Publication bias may lead to asymmetry in funnel plots.  
Generalisability 
The extent to which the results of a study hold true for a population of patients 
beyond those who participated in the research. See also External validity. 
Glasgow Coma 
Scale 
Funnel plot 
A standardised system used to assess the degree of brain impairment and to 
identify the seriousness of injury in relation to outcome. The system involves three 
determinants: eye opening, verbal responses and motor response all of which are 
evaluated independently according to a numerical value that indicates the level of 
consciousness and degree of dysfunction. 
Gold standard 
A method, procedure or measurement that is widely accepted as being the best 
available. 
 
Haematoma 
An accumulation of blood in or under the tissues. 
Haemotympanum 
A collection of blood in the middle ear space 
Health economics  
 
A field of conventional economics which examines the benefits of healthcare 
interventions (for example, medicines) compared with their financial costs. 
Heterogeneity 
Or lack of homogeneity. The term is used in meta-analyses and systematic reviews 
when the results or estimates of effects of treatment from separate studies seem to 
be very different – in terms of the size of treatment effects or even to the extent 
that some indicate beneficial and others suggest adverse treatment effects. Such 
results may occur as a result of differences between studies in terms of the patient 
populations, outcome measures, definition of variables or duration of follow-up.  
Hierarchy of 
evidence 
An established hierarchy of study types, based on the degree of certainty that can 
be attributed to the conclusions that can be drawn from a well conducted study. 
Well-conducted randomised controlled trials (RCTs) are at the top of this hierarchy. 
(Several large statistically significant RCTs which are in agreement represent 
stronger evidence than say one small RCT.) Well-conducted studies of patients’ 
views and experiences would appear at a lower level in the hierarchy of evidence. 
Homogeneity 
This means that the results of studies included in a systematic review or meta analysis 
are similar and there is no evidence of heterogeneity. Results are usually regarded 
as homogeneous when differences between studies could reasonably be expected 
to occur by chance. See also Consistency. 
Hyperventilation 
Abnormally rapid breathing. Hyperventilation results in excessive intake of oxygen 
and increased elimination of carbon dioxide, which may eventually lead to a 
disturbance in the blood chemistry. 
Hypoglycaemia 
Abnormally low levels of glucose in the blood, leading to muscular weakness, 
confusion, sweating and, in severe cases, coma. Hypoglycaemia is a complication of 
many anti-diabetic treatments. 
Inclusion criteria 
See Selection criteria. 
Infant 
Aged under 1 year. 
Intention to treat 
analysis 
An analysis of a clinical trial where patients are analysed according to the group to 
which they were initially randomly allocated, regardless of whether or not they had 
dropped out, fully complied with the treatment, or crossed over and received the