Source: Page 185 (LEFT)
Page: 185, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 425
--------------------------------------------------
192
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
For each strategy in both models, the expected healthcare costs and the expected QALYs were 
calculated by estimating the costs and QALYs for each GOS state and then multiplying them by 
the proportion of patients that would be in that state as determined by the strategy taken. Health 
state defined by the GOS state was assumed to be fixed over the lifetime.  
The base case models assume that only patients with serious head injury would be transported. A 
concern is the ability of ambulance crews to determine the severity of the head injury at the 
scene. There might be a risk of overestimating the number of severely injured patients and 
therefore of sending too many patients to the NSH, which would mean that cost-effectiveness is 
reduced and would be risky for patients with multiple trauma. For this purpose, we conducted a 
sensitivity analysis on the number of false positives (patients erroneously deemed having a serious 
head injury) that would be transported to the specialist centre without requiring neurosurgical 
care.   
11.6.4.2 
Methods: Effectiveness 
In Model A, the mortality rate together with the outcomes were derived from a study by Poon at 
al 135 in which a group of patients having an extradural haematoma was directly transported to 
the NSH while another group was only secondarily transferred there (Table 11.17). The mortality 
and the outcomes were assessed six months after the injury.  
Table 11.17: GOS score and death rate after neurosurgical care in a NSH (Model A) 
% DGH then NSH 
patients 
6 months after injury 
GOS 
Poon 1991 
Good Recovery 
49% 
86% 
Moderate 
Disability/Severe 
27% 
10% 
Disability 
Death 
24% 
4% 
 
The survival gain in Model B was derived from the results of a simulation model by Stevenson et 
al68, where the target patient population were adults with a serious head injury (AIS of 3 or 
more) – see 11.6.3.  
The model evaluated 10 different strategies of transporting patients directly to the NSH, which 
selected patients by different criteria (relating to level of AIS score, presence of multiple injuries, 
possibility of pre-hospital intubation, out of hours). Directly transporting all serious head injury 
patients to the NSH led to an estimated increase in survival of 4.5% for injury scenes near to the 
NSH and 3.4% for more distant injury scenes. 
Stevenson et al estimated only mortality and not health status. We assumed that health status in 
the additional survivors would be similar to the general population of patients with serious head