Source: Page 17 (LEFT)
Page: 17, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 685
--------------------------------------------------
24
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
alternative treatment. Intention-to-treat analyses are favoured in assessments of 
clinical effectiveness as they mirror the non-compliance and treatment changes that 
are likely to occur when the treatment is used in practice. 
Internal validity 
Refers to the integrity of the study design. 
Intervention 
Healthcare action intended to benefit the patient, for example, drug treatment, 
surgical procedure, psychological therapy, etc. 
Interventional 
procedure 
A procedure used for diagnosis or treatment that involves making a cut or hole in 
the patient’s body, entry into a body cavity or using electromagnetic radiation 
(including X-rays or lasers). The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
(NICE) has the task of producing guidance about whether specific interventional 
procedures are safe enough and work well enough for routine use.  
Intracranial 
Originating within the cranial (brain) cavity. 
Intracranial 
haematoma 
A collection of blood inside the cranium caused by damage to brain tissue or the 
rupture of a blood vessel. The resulting swelling can compress the brain. 
Intracerebral 
haemorrhage 
A bleed inside the brain tissue. 
Intracranial lesion 
A lesion of the brain.  
Literature review 
A process of collecting, reading and assessing the quality of published (and 
unpublished) articles on a given topic. 
Longitudinal study 
A study of the same group of people at more than one point in time. (This type of 
study contrasts with a cross sectional study which observes a defined set of people 
at a single point in time.) 
Mandible 
The lower jaw as a functional unit, regardless of which bones or cartilage make up 
the lower jaw in a particular organism. 
Meningism 
Stiffness of the neck associated with backwards extension of the cervical spine. 
Meta analysis 
Results from a collection of independent studies (investigating the same treatment) 
are pooled, using statistical techniques to synthesise their findings into a single 
estimate of a treatment effect. Where studies are not compatible for example, 
because of differences in the study populations or in the outcomes measured, it may 
be inappropriate or even misleading to statistically pool results in this way. See also 
Systematic review & Heterogeneity. 
Methodology 
The overall approach of a research project, for example, the study will be a 
randomised controlled trial, of 200 people, over one year.  
Methodological 
quality 
The extent to which a study has conformed to recognised good practice in the 
design and execution of its research methods.  
Monte Carlo 
simulation 
A modelling technique that uses random numbers to capture the effects of 
uncertainty. Multiple simulations are run (usually somewhere between 1,000 and 
10,000). For each simulation, the value of each uncertain variable in the analysis is 
selected at random from a probability distribution for the value of that variable. 
The simulation results are compiled, providing a probability distribution for the 
overall result. 
Motor response 
Movement in response to an external stimulus 
Multicentre study 
A study where subjects were selected from different locations or populations, for 
example, a co-operative study between different hospitals; an international 
collaboration involving patients from more than one country. 
Negative 
predictive value 
The proportion of individuals with a negative test 
result who do NOT have the disease. 
Neurorehabilitatio
n services 
A programme of clinical and vocational services with the goal of returning brain 
injured patients to a satisfying occupation,. 
Neurosurgery 
A surgical specialty for the treatment of diseases and disorders of the brain, spinal 
cord and nerves. 
Non-experimental 
study 
A study based on subjects selected on the basis of their availability, with no attempt 
having been made to avoid problems of bias. 
Non-systematic 
review 
See Review. 
Objective measure 
A measurement that follows a standardised procedure which is less open to 
subjective interpretation by potentially biased observers and study participants. 
Observational 
study  
In research about diseases or treatments, this refers to a study in which nature is 
allowed to take its course. Changes or differences in one characteristic (for 
example, whether or not people received a specific treatment or intervention) are 
studied in relation to changes or differences in other(s) (for example, whether or not 
they died), without the intervention of the investigator. There is a greater risk of