Source: Page 21 (LEFT)
Page: 21, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 708
--------------------------------------------------
28
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
could have a negative test result yet still have the disease – this is called a ‘false 
negative’. The specificity of a test is also related to its ‘positive predictive value’ 
(true positives) – a test with a specificity of 100% means that all those who get a 
positive test result definitely have the disease. To fully judge the accuracy of a test, 
its Sensitivity must also be considered.  
Standard deviation 
A measure of the spread, scatter or variability of a set of measurements. Usually 
used with the mean (average) to describe numerical data. 
Stand by call 
Contact between a paramedic or other healthcare worker and an emergency 
department, by telephone or radio, to alert the department to the impending 
arrival of a seriously ill or injured patient who will require immediate resuscitation. 
Statistical power 
The ability of a study to demonstrate an association or causal relationship between 
two variables, given that an association exists. For example, 80% power in a clinical 
trial means that the study has a 80% chance of ending up with a P value of less 
than 5% in a statistical test (that is, a statistically significant treatment effect) if 
there really was an important difference (for example, 10% versus 5% mortality) 
between treatments. If the statistical power of a study is low, the study results will 
be questionable (the study might have been too small to detect any differences). By 
convention, 80% is an acceptable level of power. See also P value.  
Structured 
interview 
A research technique where the interviewer controls the interview by adhering 
strictly to a questionnaire or interview schedule with pre-set questions. 
Study checklist 
A list of questions addressing the key aspects of the research methodology that must 
be in place if a study is to be accepted as valid. A different checklist is required for 
each study type. These checklists are used to ensure a degree of consistency in the 
way that studies are evaluated. 
Study population 
People who have been identified as the subjects of a study.  
Study quality 
See Methodological quality. 
Study type 
The kind of design used for a study. Randomised controlled trial, case-control study, 
cohort study are all examples of study types.  
Sub-group 
analysis 
An analysis in which the intervention effect is evaluated in a defined subset of the 
participants in the trial, or in complementary subsets, such as by sex or in age 
categories.  
Subdural space 
The space beneath the dura mater, between it and the much thinner arachnoid 
mater. This is often the area of rupture of delicate thin-walled veins following head 
injuries. 
Subdural 
haematoma (or 
haemorrhage) 
 
A collection of blood between the dura mater and the arachnoid mater caused by 
traumatic damage to the associated brain and blood vessels. The rise in pressure 
caused by such bleeding can cause further significant damage 
 
Subject 
A person who takes part in an experiment or research study. 
Subluxation 
A partial dislocation of a joint in which the joint surfaces remain in contact, albeit out 
of alignment. 
Survey 
A study in which information is systematically collected from people (usually from a 
sample within a defined population). 
Systematic 
Methodical, according to plan; not random. 
Systematic error 
Refers to the various errors or biases inherent in a study. See also Bias. 
Systematic review 
A review in which evidence from scientific studies has been identified, appraised 
and synthesised in a methodical way according to predetermined criteria. May or 
may not include a meta-analysis.  
Systemic 
Involving the whole body. 
Target population 
The people to whom guideline recommendations are intended to apply. 
Recommendations may be less valid if applied to a population with different 
characteristics from the participants in the research study – for example, in terms of 
age, disease state, social background. 
Tertiary centre 
A specialist medical centre providing complex treatments which receives referrals 
from both primary and secondary care. Sometimes called a tertiary referral centre. 
See also Primary care and Secondary care. 
Torticollis 
Involuntary spasms of the musculature in the neck. 
Triangulation 
Use of three or more different research methods in combination; principally used as 
a check of validity. The more the different methods produce similar results, the more 
valid the findings.