Source: Page 165 (LEFT)
Page: 165, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 477
--------------------------------------------------
172
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
11.4 
Identifying cervical spine damage in patients with head injury 
Table 11.4 identifies the resource and health outcomes that could differ between different 
diagnostic strategies. 
11.4.1 
Literature review 
There are three cost-effectiveness studies in this area: 
x Kaneriya et al 190 estimated that five view X-ray could save $24 per patient scanned 
compared with three-view because it reduced the number of subsequent CTs associated with 
inadequate X-rays by 48%.   
x Tan et al 191 estimated the cost-effectiveness of CT scan after inadequate X-ray. They found a 
cost of $16,900 per potentially (or definitely) unstable fracture and $50,600 per definitely 
unstable fracture. This is cost-effective given the consequences of paralysis. 
x Blackmore et al 121, using test sensitivities pooled from the published literature, compared CT 
scanning of the cervical spine with conventional cervical spine X-ray. Using their own risk rating 
scale, they found CT scanning to be a cost-effective strategy ($16,000 per quality-adjusted lifeyear gained) for the ‘high’ and ‘moderate’ risk groups (high energy mechanism and age under 
50 or moderate energy mechanism and age greater than 50) but not for the low risk group 
($84,000 per QALY gained).  Unlike the other studies, incorporated into these figures are the 
costs and morbidity associated with paralysis. 
x In addition, two more studies estimated the costs that could be saved by moving from current 
practice at a particular institution to a particular scanning protocol.122,192 
The above studies are not strictly relevant to the context of England and Wales, not least 
because the unit costs and the patient groups used in the studies are not from the UK. Furthermore 
they only attempted to include outcomes 1 and 2 (and in the case of Blackmore et al 4 and 6 as 
well) and crucially do not address the long term effects of medical radiation, which are likely to 
be greater in CT scanning of the neck than in CT scanning of the head (see Chapter 10). 
The Blackmore analysis suggests for a patient group that is at particularly high risk of paralysis, 
cervical spine CT could be preferable to X-ray by both improving health outcomes and lowering 
costs. However, they do not take into account the impact of the large radiation dose received by 
the thyroid from a cervical spine CT scan. This would be very difficult to model given the lack of 
empirical evidence on the long term effects of this medical radiation. It was the consensus of the 
Guideline Development Group that the benefits from CT scanning of the cervical spine do not 
obviously outweigh the risks.  
In light of the review of new clinical and cost-effectiveness evidence, the GDG modified its 
position to recommend CT scanning in high risk patients. Additional cost-effectiveness evidence 
retrieved in 2007 can be found below in 11.4.3.