Source: Page 199 (LEFT)
Page: 199, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 413
--------------------------------------------------
206
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
Direct to NSH vs 
First to DGH (age 
3,041 
0.16 
18,683 
Using model B, we conducted a threshold sensitivity analysis to take into account the negative 
effects of overestimating the number of patients to be taken to the NSH.  We define the positive 
predictive value as the proportion of patients transported directly to the NSH who are correctly 
diagnosed with a severe head injury. It is the number of true positives divided by the sum of both 
the true positives and false positives. In the case that the NSH is far from the accident scene (53 
minutes), the strategy of taking all the patients directly to the NSH is cost-effective as long as the 
positive predictive value is more than 28%. If the NSH is near the accident scene (20 minutes), the 
direct transport to the NSH is marginally cost-effective strategy even if the positive predictive 
value is as low as 10%. 
Using model B we performed a sensitivity analysis by using an alternative set of utility scores.  
The result was that direct transport strategy proved to be even more cost-effective than in the 
original model (Table 11.25).  
Table 11.25: Results of the sensitivity analysis on the utility – Model B 
 
Incremental 
cost  
gained   
Far NSU –  
Direct to NSH vs 
First to DGH (base 
7,058  
0.53 
13,369  
case age 40) 
Near NSU –  
Direct to NSH vs 
First to DGH (base 
9,393 
0.70 
13,442 
case age 40) 
11.6.4.8 
Discussion 
We found that direct transport is potentially cost saving if the health status of patients are 
substantially improved as was indicated by the Poon study. Even in our conservative model we 
find that direct transport is cost-effective. But our analysis is limited for a number of reasons. 
First, some of our assumptions regarding cost and survival were based on proxies or were 
extrapolated in to the long term. 
Our conservative model, Model B, was based on the mortality results of a previous simulation 
model. Some of the parameters in the simulation model were based on expert judgement (those 
listed in Table 11.26). The main clinical outcomes from which the probability of death derives 
were estimated by experts. In particular, experts were asked to estimate the number of patients 
that would have survived assuming they received the appropriate care (critical intervention or 
neurosurgery) at time zero. The actual time elapsed since the accident and its related probability