Source: Page 20 (LEFT)
Page: 20, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 780
--------------------------------------------------
27
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
services 
to a satisfying occupation. 
Relative risk 
A summary measure which represents the ratio of the risk of a given event or 
outcome (for example, an adverse reaction to the drug being tested) in one group 
of subjects compared to another group. When the ‘risk’ of the event is the same in 
the two groups the relative risk is 1. In a study comparing two treatments, a relative 
risk of 2 would indicate that patients receiving one of the treatments had twice the 
risk of an undesirable outcome than those receiving the other treatment. Relative 
risk is sometimes used as a synonym for risk ratio .    
Reliability 
Reliability refers to a method of measurement that consistently gives the same 
results. For example someone who has a high score on one occasion tends to have a 
high score if measured on another occasion very soon afterwards. With physical 
assessments it is possible for different clinicians to make independent assessments in 
quick succession – and if their assessments tend to agree then the method of 
assessment is said to be reliable. 
Retrospective 
study 
A retrospective study deals with the present/ past and does not involve studying 
future events. This contrasts with studies that are prospective. 
Review 
Summary of the main points and trends in the research literature  
on a specified topic. A review is considered non-systematic unless an extensive 
literature search has been carried out to ensure that all aspects of the topic are 
covered and an objective appraisal made of the quality of the studies. 
Risk ratio 
Ratio of the risk of an undesirable event or outcome occurring in a group of patients 
receiving experimental treatment compared with a comparison (control) group. The 
term relative risk is sometimes used as a synonym of risk ratio.  
Sample 
A part of the study’s target population from which the subjects of the study will be 
recruited. If subjects are drawn in an unbiased way from a particular population, 
the results can be generalised from the sample to the population as a whole.     
Sampling 
Refers to the way participants are selected for inclusion in a study. 
Sampling frame 
A list or register of names which is used to recruit participants to a study. 
Secondary care 
Care provided in hospitals. 
Seizure 
An uncontrolled discharge of nerve impulses which may spread throughout the brain. 
It usually lasts only a few minutes. It may be associated with loss of consciousness or 
loss of bowel and bladder control. 
Selection bias 
Selection bias has occurred if: 
) 
the characteristics of the sample differ from those of the wider population from 
which the sample has been drawn  OR 
) 
there are systematic differences between comparison groups of patients in a 
study in terms of prognosis or responsiveness to treatment. 
Selection criteria 
Explicit standards used by guideline development groups to decide which studies 
should be included and excluded from consideration as potential sources of 
evidence. 
Semi-structured 
interview 
Structured interviews involve asking people pre-set questions. A semi-structured 
interview allows more flexibility than a structured interview. The interviewer asks a 
number of open-ended questions, following up areas of interest in response to the 
information given by the respondent. 
Sensitivity 
In diagnostic testing, it refers to the chance of having a positive test result given that 
you have the disease. 100% sensitivity means that all those with the disease will test 
positive, but this is not the same the other way around. A patient could have a 
positive test result but not have the disease – this is called a ‘false positive’. The 
sensitivity of a test is also related to its ‘negative predictive value’ (true negatives) – 
a test with a sensitivity of 100% means that all those who get a negative test result 
do not have the disease. To fully judge the accuracy of a test, its Specificity must 
also be considered.  
Sequelae 
Plural of sequela, which is any abnormal condition that occurs subsequent to and/or 
is caused by disease, injury, or treatment. 
Single blind study 
A study in which either the subject (patient/participant) or the observer 
(clinician/investigator) is not aware of which treatment or intervention the subject is 
receiving. 
Specific indication 
When a drug or a device has a specific remit to treat a specific condition and is not 
licensed for use in treating other conditions or diseases.  
Specificity 
In diagnostic testing, it refers to the chance of having a negative test result given 
that you do not have the disease. 100% specificity means that all those without the 
disease will test negative, but this is not the same the other way around. A patient