Source: Page 14 (LEFT)
Page: 14, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 784
--------------------------------------------------
21
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
confident that the true effect lies.   
Confounder or 
confounding factor 
Something that influences a study and can contribute to misleading findings if it is 
not understood or appropriately dealt with. For example, if a group of people 
exercising regularly and a group of people who do not exercise have an important 
age difference then any difference found in outcomes about heart disease could 
well be due to one group being older than the other rather than due to the 
exercising. Age is the confounding factor here and the effect of exercising on heart 
disease cannot be assessed without adjusting for age differences in some way.  
Consciousness 
An alert cognitive state in which you are aware of yourself and your situation 
Consensus 
development 
conference 
A technique used for the purpose of reaching an agreement on a particular issue. It 
involves bringing together a group of about 10 people who are presented with 
evidence by various interest groups or experts who are not part of the decision 
making group. The group then retires to consider the questions in the light of the 
evidence presented and attempts to reach a consensus. See also Consensus methods. 
Consensus 
methods 
A variety of techniques that aim to reach an agreement on a particular issue. 
Formal consensus methods include Delphi and nominal group techniques, and 
consensus development conferences. In the development of clinical guidelines, 
consensus methods may be used where there is a lack of strong research evidence 
on a particular topic.  
Consistency 
The extent to which the conclusions of a collection of studies used to support a 
guideline recommendation are in agreement with each other. See also Homogeneity.
Control group 
A group of patients recruited into a study that receives no treatment, a treatment of 
known effect, or a placebo (dummy treatment) - in order to provide a comparison 
for a group receiving an experimental treatment, such as a new drug. 
Controlled clinical 
trial (CCT) 
A study testing a specific drug or other treatment involving two (or more) groups of 
patients with the same disease. One (the experimental group) receives the 
treatment that is being tested, and the other (the comparison or control group) 
receives an alternative treatment, a placebo (dummy treatment) or no treatment. 
The two groups are followed up to compare differences in outcomes to see how 
effective the experimental treatment was. A CCT where patients are randomly 
allocated to treatment and comparison groups is called a randomised controlled 
trial. 
Cost benefit 
analysis 
A type of economic evaluation where both costs and benefits of healthcare 
treatment are measured in the same monetary units. If benefits exceed costs, the 
evaluation would recommend providing the treatment.  
Cost effectiveness 
A type of economic evaluation that assesses the additional costs and benefits of 
doing something different. In cost effectiveness analysis, the costs and benefits of 
different treatments are compared. When a new treatment is compared with 
current care, its additional costs divided by its additional benefits is called the cost 
effectiveness ratio. Benefits are measured in natural units, for example, cost per 
additional heart attack prevented. 
Cost utility 
analysis 
A special form of cost effectiveness analysis where benefit is measured in quality 
adjusted life years. A treatment is assessed in terms of its ability to extend or 
improve the quality of life. 
Cranial 
Pertaining to the cranium. 
Craniocervical 
juntion 
The junction between the base of the skull and the top of the cervical spine. 
Crossover study 
design 
A study comparing two or more interventions in which the participants, upon 
completion of the course of one treatment, are switched to another. For example, 
for a comparison of treatments A and B, half the participants are randomly 
allocated to receive them in the order A, B and half to receive them in the order B, 
A. A problem with this study design is that the effects of the first treatment may 
carry over into the period when the second is given. Therefore a crossover study 
should include an adequate ‘wash-out’ period, which means allowing sufficient time 
between stopping one treatment and starting another so that the first treatment has 
time to wash out of the patient’s system. 
Cross-sectional 
study 
The observation of a defined set of people at a single point in time or time period 
– a snapshot. (This type of study contrasts with a longitudinal study which follows a 
set of people over a period of time.) 
Data set 
A list of required information relating to a specific disease. 
Decision analysis 
A systematic way of reaching decisions, based on evidence from research. This 
evidence is translated into probabilities, and then into diagrams or decision trees