Source: Page 13 (LEFT)
Page: 13, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 784
--------------------------------------------------
20
 
Head Injury: triage, assessment, investigation and early management of head injury in infants, children and adults. 
Clinical question 
This term is sometimes used in guideline development work to refer to the questions 
about treatment and care that are formulated in order to guide the search for 
research evidence. When a clinical question is formulated in a precise way, it is 
called a focused question. 
Clinical trial  
 
A research study conducted with patients which tests out a drug or other intervention 
to assess its effectiveness and safety. Each trial is designed to answer scientific 
questions and to find better ways to treat individuals with a specific disease. This 
general term encompasses controlled clinical trials and randomised controlled trials. 
Clinician 
A healthcare professional providing patient care, for example, doctor, nurse, 
physiotherapist.  
Closed head injury 
A blow to the head or a severe shaking causing  tearing, shearing or stretching of 
the nerves at the base of the brain, blood clots in or around the brain or oedema 
(swelling) of the brain. There is no penetration of the skull or brain tissue by an 
object; the skull may be fractured but this does not result in a direct connection 
between the brain and the outside. (see Penetrating Brain Injury) 
Cluster 
randomisation 
A study in which groups of individuals (for example, patients in a General 
Practitioner surgery or on a hospital ward) are randomly allocated to treatment 
groups. Take, for example, a smoking cessation study of two different interventions 
– leaflets and teaching sessions. Each General Practitioner surgery within the study 
would be randomly allocated to administer one of the two interventions. See also 
Cluster, Cluster design. 
Coagulopathy 
A condition affecting the blood's ability to form a clot. 
Cochrane 
Collaboration 
An international organisation in which people find, appraise and review specific 
types of studies called randomised controlled trials. The Cochrane Database of 
Systematic Reviews contains regularly updated reviews on a variety of health issues 
and is available electronically as part of the Cochrane Library.  
Cochrane Library 
The Cochrane Library consists of a regularly updated collection of evidence-based 
medicine databases including the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 
(reviews of randomised controlled trials prepared by the Cochrane Collaboration). 
The Cochrane Library is available on CD-ROM and the Internet. 
Cohort 
A group of people sharing some common characteristic (for example, patients with 
the same disease), followed up in a research study for a specified period of time. 
Cohort study 
An observational study that takes a group (cohort) of patients and follows their 
progress over time in order to measure outcomes such as disease or mortality rates 
and make comparisons according to the treatments or interventions that patients 
received. Thus within the study group, subgroups of patients are identified (from 
information collected about patients) and these groups are compared with respect 
to outcome, for example, comparing mortality between one group that received a 
specific treatment and one group which did not (or between two groups that 
received different levels of treatment). Cohorts can be assembled in the present 
and followed into the future (a ‘concurrent’ or ‘prospective’ cohort study) or 
identified from past records and followed forward from that time up to the present 
(a ‘historical’ or ‘retrospective’ cohort study). Because patients are not randomly 
allocated to subgroups, these subgroups may be quite different in their 
characteristics and some adjustment must be made when analysing the results to 
ensure that the comparison between groups is as fair as possible.  
Coma 
A sleep-like state in which a person is not conscious.  
Co-morbidity 
Co-existence of a disease or diseases in the people being studied in addition to the 
health problem that is the subject of the study. 
Community health 
services 
General Practice, ambulance crews, NHS walk-in centres and dental practitioners. 
Concussion 
The common result of a blow to the head or sudden deceleration usually causing an 
altered mental state, either temporary or prolonged. Physiological and/or 
anatomical disruption of connections between some nerve cells in the brain may 
occur. Often used by the public to refer to a brief loss of consciousness. 
Confidence 
interval 
A way of expressing certainty about the findings from a study or group of studies, 
using statistical techniques. A confidence interval describes a range of possible 
effects (of a treatment or intervention) that are consistent with the results of a study 
or group of studies. A wide confidence interval indicates a lack of certainty or 
precision about the true size of the clinical effect and is seen in studies with too few 
patients. Where confidence intervals are narrow they indicate more precise 
estimates of effects and a larger sample of patients studied. It is usual to interpret 
a ‘95%’ confidence interval as the range of effects within which we are 95%