Source: Page 27 (LEFT)
Page: 27, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 398
--------------------------------------------------
- Early CT scans may not demonstrate intra-cerebral 
contusions which take time to become apparent on CT 
scanning.
- CT scanning will not demonstrate diffuse axonal injury 
in most patients.3
- Patients may suffer significant post concussive 
symptoms despite an initial normal CT scan.3, 94, 98, 99, 
- Routine use of CT scanning does not guarantee better 
identification of significant intracranial injuries if 
different institutions are compared.12, 37
- The risk of cumulative radiation exposure especially 
among children is of concern.120-123
- May delay definitive management of more significant 
injuries in multi system trauma patients.
CT scanning and radiation
There is increasing concern about the potential harm 
from radiation associated with CT scanning.122, 123, 127-130 
The main risk associated with radiation exposure from CT 
scanning is an increased lifetime risk of fatal cancer.122, 123 
There have also been concerns about the effects of 
radiation on cognitive development in children. Hall 
et al120 showed a significant reduction in educational 
performance in young children who received the equivalent 
dose of radiation of one or two CT heads for childhood 
haemangiomas. The risk posed by radiation is greatest 
in young children due to the relatively increased dose on 
more sensitive tissue and the increased time for a cancer to 
develop. Thus a person who has a CT scan as a child is at 
much greater risk than a person who has their first CT scan 
age 65 where the risk is very small. The risk posed by CT 
scan radiation is cumulative and is greatest in patients with 
chronic disease who have multiple scans. In patients with 
moderate to severe head injury there is a clear benefit from 
performing a CT scan because the probability of identifying 
a life threatening injury clearly outweighs the small increase 
in the lifetime risk of cancer. In the case of patients with 
mild head injury the risk of harm from radiation needs 
to be weighed against the relatively low probability of 
identifying a neurosurgically significant lesion on CT scan. 
This is of most concern in younger patients where the 
effective radiation exposure is higher, the time available for 
developing a cancer greater and the chance of cumulative 
lifetime exposure greater. Hence the interest in developing 
clinical decision rules for mild head injury patients to 
determine who really needs a CT scan.
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 25