Source: Page 21 (RIGHT)
Page: 21, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 417
--------------------------------------------------
no significant injury, long-term cognitive-behavioural 
dysfunction or a life threatening extradural haematoma.
This is particularly important for mild head injury patients 
because GCS primarily assesses the risk of structural lesions. 
Subtle cognitive changes are not well discriminated within 
the mild head injury group. This led to the development of 
the extended Glasgow Coma Scale and the Abbreviated 
Westmead PTA Scale that assess the duration of post 
traumatic amnesia as a means of identifying patients at 
increased risk of cognitive problems.106-109 Despite these 
limitations initial GCS on admission remains the standard 
method for initial classification of head injuries.
When assessing initial GCS in patients with head injury it is 
worthwhile considering time of injury. Clearly initial GCS for 
a given patient may vary depending on time of presentation 
to hospital. Few studies have related GCS to the time of 
injury with the exception of Stiell et al35 who found GCS 
<15 at two hour post injury was a significant predictor of 
intracranial injury for mild head injury patients. Most recent 
studies that have reported time of presentation have shown 
that mild head injuries present around 60 to 90 minutes 
post injury.31, 43, 54 An abnormal initial GCS taken within 
one hour of injury is therefore likely to overestimate the 
risk of intracranial injury in mild head injury patients who 
present early.
Prehospital GCS, motor score and return of orientation 
are other factors to consider when assessing initial GCS. 
Prehospital GCS was felt to be unreliable,110 but with 
more organised prehospital systems, it is gaining further 
attention.15, 111 Motor score is the best predictor of outcome 
of the GCS components.15 Orientation returns most 
commonly in the sequence of person, place then time.112 
The Glasgow Coma Scale is used as one of the parameters 
in serial observation of head injury patients. This is what 
it was originally designed for and what it is most useful 
for. Both the original studies and subsequent studies have 
validated its use in this fashion and, prior to the advent 
of CT scanning, alteration in GCS was the most useful 
tool in predicting intracranial injury.9, 104 Borg et al101 in 
a meta analysis for the World Health Organisation on 
mild traumatic brain injury concluded that in the absence 
of CT scanning that hospital observation for at least 24 
hours for patients with GCS 15 and other risk factors was 
a reasonable strategy. Currently, serial GCS remains a 
standard tool in the monitoring of head injuries when CT 
scanning is unavailable or when clinical symptoms persist