Source: Page 28 (RIGHT)
Page: 28, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 298
--------------------------------------------------
most mild head injury patients with minor abnormalities 
on CT scan do not require routine repeat CT scanning if 
they are clinically improving with a normal GCS and no 
neurological deficit unless they are anti-coagulated. 
The other question that is often asked is should elderly 
anti-coagulated patients with normal initial CT scans 
have routine repeat CT scans and if so when should they 
be performed and should the patient be admitted for 
observation. There is little evidence to guide management 
in these situations. The consensus appears to be that 
the older the patient, and the more the patient is anticoagulated (higher INR), the greater the risk of delayed 
bleeding. However, how to manage that risk remains 
unclear.
Summary
- CT scanning is the best investigation for the early 
identification of neurosurgically significant focal 
intracranial lesions following mild head injury.
- CT scanning should be used as an adjunct to clinical 
assessment.
- Where structured clinical assessment indicates the risk 
of significant intracranial lesion is low, the routine use 
of CT scanning is unlikely to be of benefit. 
- CT scanning does not accurately predict the risk of 
post concussion symptoms in mild head injury patients.
- Early CT scanning may theoretically not demonstrate 
some subdural haematomas and cerebral contusions 
but there is little evidence to suggest that this is 
clinically relevant in most patients. 
- There is little evidence to guide the management of 
anti-coagulated elderly mild head injury patients with 
initially normal CT scans who are potentially at risk 
of delayed bleeds, especially subdural haematomas. 
There is increased risk with increased age and degree 
of coagulopathy but how to manage that risk remains 
unclear.
- Routine repeat CT scanning is not indicated for most 
clinically improving mild head injury patients with 
minor abnormalities on initial CT scan.