Source: Page 38 (LEFT)
Page: 38, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 330
--------------------------------------------------
low threshold for performing CT scans where associated 
injuries require significant amounts of analgesia, procedural 
sedation or general anaesthesia. 
Pre-existing neurosurgery/neurological 
impairment
Pre-existing neurosurgery or neurological impairment 
is a relative indication for CT scanning.85, 153, 168 
Pre-existing neurosurgery has been suggested as an 
indication for CT scanning particularly in the presence 
of hydrocephalus and shunt placement.6, 33 Sevadei et 
al6 recommended routine CT scanning for patients with 
either previous neurosurgery or epilepsy. From a practical 
viewpoint, any pre-existing medical condition resulting 
in neurological impairment (eg stroke, dementia, and 
developmental delay) may make clinical assessment difficult. 
More recent studies have been unable to enrol sufficient 
numbers of patients to give clear guidance about these risk 
factors.48 
Delayed presentation or representation
Delayed presentation or representation are relative 
indications for CT scanning. Clinical judgement is 
required. Patients who present more than four hours 
post injury with persistent or new clinical symptoms 
should be regarded as being at relatively high risk for 
intracranial injury.4, 6, 44, 53, 114, 119 
Although mild head injuries are very common it is thought 
that the majority do not present to hospital.114, 119 
Therefore, those that do present to hospital are already a 
group at slightly increased risk. Of particular concern are 
those who have a delayed presentation due to persistence 
of symptoms or those who represent because of ongoing 
or new symptoms. Most of the larger studies have excluded 
patients who presented more than 24 hours post injury 
or who represented, so there is a lack of evidence about 
these patients. However, it is clear from most of the 
studies that patient’s who have persistent or new abnormal 
mental status, or persistent or new clinical symptoms such 
as vomiting or severe headache, have increased risk of 
intracranial injury. 
Delayed presentation due to ongoing symptoms should be 
regarded as being the same as failing to return to normal 
after clinical observation. Representation due to persistent 
PAGE 36  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH