Source: Page 26 (LEFT)
Page: 26, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 391
--------------------------------------------------
- Studies by Haydel et al32 (New Orleans Criteria), Stiell 
et al35 (Canadian CT Head Rules) and Mower et al58 
(NEXUS II) have provided externally validated evidence 
based clinical decision rules for mild head injury in 
adults. The Canadian CT Head Rules are the most 
extensively studied of the clinical decision rules.
- Clinical decision rules should be used as tools to 
support clinical decisions and should not override 
clinical judgement
- If clinicians choose to use a clinical decision rule, they 
should be aware of the limitations and inclusion / 
exclusion criteria of whichever clinical decision rule they 
decide to use.
Skull x-rays
The literature clearly identifies that both the clinical 
suspicion of skull fractures and the radiological evidence of 
skull fracture are significant risk factors for the presence of 
an intracranial lesion requiring neurosurgical intervention.6, 
31, 32, 35, 66, 74
If CT scanning is available, the current indications for skull 
x-rays are few. However, if CT scanning is unavailable, 
the role of skull x-rays as a screening test is less clear. A 
detailed meta analysis by Hofman et al66 concluded that 
whilst the presence of skull fracture greatly increased the 
risk of intracranial injury, the absence of a skull fracture 
did not rule it out (calculated sensitivity 38% calculated 
specificity 95%). In subsequent clinical guidelines, authors 
have differed as to whether skull x-rays should be used to 
detect patients at higher risk of intracranial injury. Jagoda et 
al9 argued that the sensitivity of skull x-ray is not sufficient 
to be used as a screening test. Vos et al10 and Servadei et 
al6 felt that in the absence of CT scanning, a positive skull 
x-ray can be useful to help allocate patients into higher risk 
groups for management purposes. On existing evidence, 
both approaches seem reasonable depending on local 
management guidelines. 
Summary
- Clinical evidence or suspicion of skull fracture is 
associated with increased risk of intracranial injury.
- Skull x-rays are not sufficiently sensitive to be used as a 
routine screening test to identify patients at increased 
risk of intracranial injury.
- Where CT scanning is unavailable, skull x-ray may 
be used as an adjunct to identify patients with skull 
fractures who are at greater risk of intracranial injury 
(but not to exclude intracranial injury). 
PAGE 24  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH