Source: Page 23 (LEFT)
Page: 23, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 389
--------------------------------------------------
If the serial clinical neurological observations of patients 
with an initial GCS 15 at 2 hours post injury are improving 
or have returned to normal at four hours post injury then 
the evidence would suggest it is safe to discharge them for 
home observation if they have no risk factors indicating the 
need for CT scan or if they have an initial normal CT scan. 
There is no strong evidence to support a specific duration 
of time of observation. Observation until 4 hours post time 
of injury should be used as an initial guide. Patients with 
trivial injuries could be considered for earlier discharge 
by an experienced senior clinician and patients with high 
risk factors should be considered for longer periods of 
observation. 
If serial neurological observations are not improving at 
four hours post injury then serial neurological observations 
should be continued and clinical decisions need to be 
made about the need for CT scanning and/or admission 
to hospital for prolonged observation. The period of 
admission to hospital for prolonged observation is also 
controversial as there is little evidence to support the 
general recommendation of twenty four hours. This period 
of observation is derived from studies that show that 
clinical deterioration is unusual in mild head injury patients 
after twenty four hours. Indeed, prior to the advent of CT 
scanning serial clinical observation was the standard of 
care and the need for neurosurgical intervention in mild 
head injury patients was largely determined on the basis 
of clinical deterioration. The best location for prolonged 
neurological observation for lower risk patients is also 
debated because some studies have shown that admission 
to hospital does not guarantee that regular neurological 
observation will occur.53
If patients are not clinically improving or have abnormalities 
on CT scan that warrant hospital admission, then serial 
clinical observations should be continued. The duration 
of this time of observation remains poorly defined. 
Basically, clinical observation should be continued until 
clinical symptoms improve or until it is felt there is little 
risk of deterioration. This needs to be individualised but a 
minimum of 24 hours is normally recommended.101
Summary
- Serial neurological observation is a useful tool for the 
early identification of acute neurological deterioration 
and the identification and monitoring of persistent mild 
neurological deficits.
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 21