Source: Page 17 (LEFT)
Page: 17, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 370
--------------------------------------------------
RECOMMENDATION
Strength of 
recommendation
Post concussion symptoms are relatively common following mild head injury and may have 
signiﬁ cant cognitive-behavioural-social impact on patients and their families.
 
Many patients will have minor post concussion symptoms that will resolve within a few days while some 
patients will have more signiﬁ cant post concussion symptoms that will take a few weeks to resolve.
A small number of patients with mild head injury will have persistent disabling post concussion 
symptoms after 3 months and will require referral for brain injury rehabilitation assessment. Most of 
these patients will improve by 12 months.
Mild head injury patients with structural lesions on CT scan, a history of signiﬁ cant acute clinical 
symptoms or documented persistent post traumatic amnesia are at increased risk of post concussion 
symptoms but post concussion symptoms can occur in the absence of these features. 
The only interventions that have been shown to be beneﬁ cial for post concussion symptoms are 
education, reassurance and time. Therefore, it is important to provide education about post concussion 
symptoms to all mild head injury patients. All patients should be given written advice and advised to see 
a doctor if they are not feeling better within a few days of injury. 
Typical post concussion symptoms include:
- headaches
- dizziness
- fatigue
- memory impairment
- poor concentration
- mood swings
- behavioural changes
- sleep disturbance
- social dysfunction
Clinically important complications of mild head injury 
include both structural lesions and functional deficits. The 
most important structural lesions to identify are those 
requiring acute neurosurgical intervention. However, 
functional deficits resulting in cognitive-behavioural-social 
sequelae are far more common and may have significant 
impact on patients and their families. It is important that 
doctors, patients and their families understand that the 
absence of a structural lesion on CT scan following a mild 
head injury does not exclude the possibility of significant 
cognitive-behavioural-social sequelae.
Acute intracranial haematomas requiring acute 
neurosurgical intervention are the most dramatic and 
life threatening complications of mild head injury. 
The identification of structural lesions requiring acute 
neurosurgical intervention is the most important function 
of CT scanning because the presence or absence of 
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 15