Source: Page 100 (LEFT)
Page: 100, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 462
--------------------------------------------------
invalidates the motor score at this time, in this patient, as 
a means to measure consciousness. Another important 
caveat to the measurement of the motor score component 
of the GCS is that the simple “squeeze my fingers” is NOT 
sufficient or appropriate to demonstrate this function.197 A 
grasp reflex an be elicited in many patients with decreased 
cognition, similar to that found in babies, and attempts at 
least have to include the command to release the fingers 
after squeezing them, and this must be seen to be obeyed. 
More specific commands such as “show me two fingers” 
are more appropriate.
In the sections above, there are various conditions discussed 
which invalidate the measurement of specific domains of 
the GCS, however it must always be borne in mind that 
this tool is designed to assess consciousness and cognition, 
and that local lesions of many descriptions invalidate this 
measurement, and should therefore not be counted into 
an overall score at all, and should not be counted into 
a domain score without documented explanation. If a 
domain of the GCS, such as eye opening or verbal response 
is confounded by local lesions, then both snapshots and 
trends should be limited to the use of the other domains.192, 
193 Since the motor score has been shown to contain most 
of the predictive power of the GCS, especially in the more 
severely head injured patients, it would be reasonable to 
use this alone in these circumstances. When this occurs, 
it has been recommended that a 1 is scored,197 however 
if this is done it has to be accompanied by a written 
explanation and the caveat that this cannot be used in an 
overall score.
Conditions such as alcohol, drugs, inability to understand 
commands due to language barriers, and hearing 
impairment are all conditions that may confound the 
performance of a GCS, and once again consideration 
needs to be given to the reason for measuring cognition. 
For example, if the reason the GCS is being measured 
is to assess the level of consciousness associated with a 
head injury or pathological cause of decreased conscious 
level, conditions such as alcohol or sedative drugs are a 
confounder which invalidate the GCS; however, if the 
measurement is being used to assess the effect of drugs on 
the level of consciousness, this is then the relevant effect 
being measured. In these circumstances, however, many of 
the correlates of a decreased level of consciousness in head 
injury measured by GCS may not be accurate; such as an 
inability to protect the airway associated with a GCS 8, 
which is often not true in patients obtunded with certain 
drugs of abuse. An extended list of potential confounders is 
shown below.
PAGE 98  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH