Source: Page 33 (RIGHT)
Page: 33, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 446
--------------------------------------------------
Several studies have noted that prolonged anterograde 
or retrograde post traumatic amnesia are risk factors for 
intracranial injury and the recent study by Smits et al47 
identified persistent post traumatic amnesia (PTA) as a 
significant independent risk factor. Amnesia for the event 
implies transient neurological dysfunction and indicates 
mildly increased risk of intracranial injury although the 
absolute risk remains small.74 Anterograde amnesia (typically 
defined as the period of loss of short term memory for 
events following the head injury) and post traumatic 
amnesia (typically defined as the period of inability to lay 
down new memories following a head injury) are essentially 
a continuum. A prolonged duration of both anterograde 
amnesia and post traumatic amnesia have both been shown 
to be associated with risk of intracranial injury.32, 35, 47, 56 
Haydel et al32 identified short term memory deficit as a 
significant risk factor for intracranial injury. Stiell et al35 also 
identified anterograde amnesia of more than 30 minutes as 
a risk factor but did not include it in their clinical decision 
rule. Mower et al58 found that abnormal alertness, in which 
they included short term memory deficits and perseverating 
speech, was a significant risk factor for intracranial injury. 
Retrograde amnesia (defined as the period of loss of short 
term memory for events prior to the head injury) has been 
shown by Stiell et al35 to be of significance if greater than 
30 minutes duration. 
Post traumatic amnesia that persists for more than 24 
hours has been shown to be a significant risk factor for 
persistent cognitive-behavioural-social dysfunction and 
is a clinical indicator of moderate traumatic brain injury.3 
Recent Australian studies have looked at using specific 
bedside tools in the emergency department to better 
identify patients with persistent PTA so that these patients 
can be more closely followed up as they are more likely 
to suffer significant post concussion symptoms.3, 106-108 
From a practical point of view, all patients with mild head 
injury should be assessed for post traumatic amnesia. As 
Ruff et al143 pointed out, it may be difficult to establish an 
accurate assessment of the period of PTA due to the patient 
being told what happened by others, the influence of 
drugs or alcohol or psychological stress and the limitations 
of clinical assessment. It is useful to assess the patient’s 
recall of events following their injury by asking specific 
questions such as what is their first clear memory, who 
helped them at the scene and how they got to hospital. 
This can be used to estimate the period of post traumatic 
amnesia. Clinicians should also look for symptoms of post 
traumatic amnesia such as repetitive questioning, failure to 
remember clinical staff and inability to remember events