Source: Page 42 (LEFT)
Page: 42, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 420
--------------------------------------------------
Discharge criteria
Mild head injury patients can be discharged for home 
observation after initial period of in-hospital observation if 
they meet clinical, social and discharge advice criteria.4, 6, 
15, 44, 47, 49, 52, 56, 60, 65, 74, 81, 87, 94, 97, 99, 115, 118, 154, 158, 169, 170, 
174, 178, 181, 184, 191 Mild head injury patients can be safely 
discharged from hospital for home observation when the 
risk of acute deterioration from an underlying intracranial 
injury is assessed as being low. Safe discharge also 
requires that the patient has adequate social supports and 
appropriate advice on when to return to hospital.
The duration of in-hospital observation required will 
be determined by clinical assessment combined with 
selective use of imaging. Deterioration following mild head 
injury may occur due to missed or delayed intracranial 
haematomas or other complications such as SIADH, post 
traumatic seizures or severe post concussive symptoms. 
Although clinical assessment and observation combined 
with appropriate imaging will identify most at risk patients, 
the risk of deterioration is never zero. Although uncommon, 
deterioration may occur even after prolonged periods of 
observation and / or following normal CT scanning. The 
challenge of managing mild head injuries is to identify what 
is reasonable risk and to ensure that the patient is aware of 
the potential for delayed deterioration.
All the recent clinical decision rules have shown that safe 
discharge is possible after clinical assessment and/or CT scan. 
In both a series of meta analyses and a large population 
study, af Geijerstam et al3, 4, 6 have shown that the risk 
of deterioration following mild head injury is low and the 
risk of deterioration following normal CT scans is very low. 
De Broussard et al92 also found that the risk of delayed 
intracranial complications following mild head injury were 
very low in a large population study. 
The Initial Management of Adult Mild Head Injury algorithm 
summaries the key points in management relating to safe 
discharge and some of the significant studies relating to 
safe discharge are presented in Evidence Table 6. Mild 
head injury patients should essentially be divided into 
low and high risk groups based on clinical assessment. 
Low risk mild head injury patients can be discharged for 
home observation after a short period of observation in 
hospital if clinically improving. High risk patients require CT 
scanning and/or prolonged observation. High risk patients 
with clinically important abnormalities on CT scan require 
admission for prolonged observation. High risk patients 
PAGE 40  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH