Source: Page 104 (LEFT)
Page: 104, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 529
--------------------------------------------------
The ﬁrst 4 weeks after injury 
You may have some common effects from the head injury which usually resolve in several weeks to three months. These are 
called post concussive symptoms (see below). Tiredness can exaggerate the symptoms. Return to your normal activities 
gradually (not all at once) during the ﬁrst weeks or months. You can help yourself get better by:
Rest / Sleeping
Your brain needs time to recover. It is important to get adequate amounts of sleep 
as you may feel more tired than normal.  
Driving
Do not drive or operate machinery until you feel much better and can concentrate 
properly. Talk to your doctor.
Drinking / Drugs
Do not drink alcohol or use recreational drugs until you are fully recovered . They 
will make you feel much worse. Do not take medication unless advised by your 
doctor. 
Work / Study
You may need to take time off work or study until you can concentrate better. Most 
people need a day or two off work but are back full time in less than 2 weeks. How 
much time you need off work or study will depend on the type of job you do. See 
your doctor and let your employer or teachers know if you are having problems at 
work or with study.  You may need to return to study or work gradually. 
Sport / Lifestyle
It is dangerous for the brain to be injured again if is has not recovered from the ﬁrst 
injury. Talk to your doctor about the steps you need to take to gradually increase 
sports activity and return to play. If in doubt “sit it out”. 
Relationships
Sometimes your symptoms will affect your relationship with family and friends. You 
may suffer irritability and mood swings. See your doctor if you or your family are 
worried. 
Recovery
You should start to feel better within a few days and be ‘back to normal’ within about 4 weeks. See your 
local doctor if you are not starting to feel better.
Your doctor will monitor these symptoms and may refer you to a specialist if you do not improve over 4 
weeks up to 3 months. 
Post Concussion Symptoms 
There are common symptoms after a mild head injury. They usually go away within a few days or weeks. 
Sometimes you may not be aware of them until sometime after your injury like when you return to work.
Feeling more tired than usual and  lacking energy 
 
❖
Mild headaches (that won’t go away)
 
❖
Having more trouble than usual with  attention & 
 
❖
Irritability. Losing your temper and getting annoyed 
 
❖
concentration
Having more trouble than usual with remembering 
 
❖
Mood swings
 
❖
things (memory difﬁculties/forgetfulness)
Anxiety or depression
 
❖
Feeling dizzy or sick without vomiting (nausea)
 
❖
Mild behavioural change
 
❖
Balance problems
 
❖
More sensitive to sounds or lights
 
❖
More difﬁculty than usual with making decisions 
 
❖
and solving problems, getting things done or being 
organised
Change in sleep patterns. Trouble sleeping or sleeping 
 
❖
Feeling vague, slowed or “foggy” thinking
 
❖
Reduced tolerance to alcohol
 
❖
Local service information
PAGE 102  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH