Source: Page 18 (RIGHT)
Page: 18, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 406
--------------------------------------------------
behavioural-social dysfunction caused by mild head 
injury can be quite disabling, and some researchers have 
suggested that the severity of impact on lifestyle makes the 
term ‘mild’ inappropriate for some patients.3, 98, 99 Patients 
with significant persistent post concussive symptoms 
should be referred to a brain injury rehabilitation service or 
neurologist by their GP (see Appendix 7).
Most of the studies looking at post concussion 
symptoms included patients with initial GCS 13-15 with 
either transient confusion or disorientation or loss of 
consciousness (<30 min) or PTA (<24 hours) who did not 
require neurosurgery. Therefore, they tended to exclude 
lower risk patients without loss of consciousness or amnesia 
and include higher risk patients with initial GCS 13 when 
compared to the definition of mild head injury used in 
this guideline. The inclusion of patients without loss of 
consciousness or amnesia and the classification of patients 
with initial GCS 13 as moderate head injury means that 
the incidence of post concussion symptoms may be less 
common in the patients classified as mild head injury in 
this guideline. However, Lannsjo et al96 in a population 
based study of patients with initial GCS 15 found that 
about 34% of patients reported multiple (3 or more on 
the Rivermead Questionnaire) significant ongoing post 
concussion symptoms at three months. Kraus et al95 found 
about 30% of their patients (GCS 13-15) had a similar 
frequency of multiple symptoms although it is interesting 
to note that about 20% of their control group of patients 
attending ED for other problems reported multiple 
symptoms. Kraus et al95 found that headaches, dizziness, 
forgetfulness and frustration were the Rivermead symptoms 
that best identified mild head injury patients from the 
controls. Clearly, post concussion symptoms occur in many 
mild head injury patients but it is difficult to define which 
patients will get multiple persistent symptoms due to the 
mild head injury as many symptoms are common to other 
conditions, as well as the general population. The findings 
of these recent studies again emphasised the importance 
of providing education and follow up information regarding 
post concussion symptoms to all patients with mild 
head injury as a significant minority may have persistent 
symptoms. 
Post concussion symptoms are relatively common following 
mild head injury and may have significant cognitivebehavioural-social impact on patients and their families. 
Mild head injury patients with structural lesions on CT scan, 
significant acute clinical symptoms or significant PTA are 
at increased risk of post concussion symptoms but post