Source: Page 42 (RIGHT)
Page: 42, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 377
--------------------------------------------------
with normal CT scanning should also be admitted for 
prolonged observation unless rapid clinical improvement 
occurs. In both high and low risk mild head injury 
patients, potential clinical indications for admission such 
as intercurrent medical problems and injuries need to be 
considered. Whatever the period of observation selected, 
the provision of safe discharge advice and assessment 
of the patient’s social situation is mandatory because 
occasional cases of deterioration following discharge are 
unavoidable. An example of a suitable head injury discharge 
advice sheet is attached at Appendix 6.
Discharge advice
All patients with mild head injury should be given both 
verbal and written discharge advice covering signs and 
symptoms of acute deterioration, when to seek urgent 
medical attention, lifestyle advice to assist recovery, 
information about typical post concussion symptoms and 
reasons for seeking further medical follow up. As with all 
discharge advice this should be time specific and action 
specific. 
There have been multiple studies that have shown that the 
risk of acute deterioration following mild head injury is very 
small particularly if the patient has been assessed as being 
low risk clinically or has been assessed as high risk and has 
had a normal CT scan. However, all the authors of major 
guidelines and clinical prediction rules consistently stress the 
point that there is a very small risk of deterioration for an 
individual patient, not to mention the possibility of medical 
error, which is why all patients should be advised about 
symptoms and signs of deterioration and when to seek 
urgent medical attention.
The most important complications of mild head injury 
to identify are those requiring acute neurosurgical 
intervention. However, functional deficits resulting in 
cognitive-behavioural-social sequelae are far more common 
and may have significant impact on patients and their 
families. It is important that doctors, patients and their 
families understand that the absence of a structural lesion 
on CT scan following a mild head injury does not exclude 
the possibility of significant cognitive-behavioural-social 
sequelae. Mild head injury discharge advice should include 
information about post concussion symptoms including 
what they are, how to minimise them and when to seek 
further medical attention if they persist. It is very important 
that patients are informed about the potential that they 
will have post concussion symptoms so that they are able