Source: Page 8 (LEFT)
Page: 8, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 317
--------------------------------------------------
Changes from 2007 edition
Background
The first edition of this guideline was written in 2005 
using evidence available until December 2004. The aim of 
this new edition is to review the evidence published since 
December 2004 and to provide some additional information 
on specific topics including the role of anticonvulsants and 
analgesics in the management of closed head injury. 
The aim of the original guideline was to provide a clinically 
practical evidence based guideline that summarised 
the initial management of adult closed head injury. It 
was piloted by the NSW Institute of Trauma and Injury 
Management (ITIM) and then formally adopted and 
published by NSW Health in January 2007. There was a 
conscious effort by the initial guideline team to provide a 
clinically practical document with clinically useful resources 
such as algorithms, summaries and discharge advice sheets 
backed up by a detailed evidence review. The guideline 
team has continued the same principles for this update, 
incorporating feedback from clinicians to improve the 
guideline. The algorithms and mild head injury discharge 
sheets have been revised to reflect the changes in the body 
of the guideline and the feedback received. 
The guideline team would emphasise that this guideline is a 
clinical tool designed to assist clinicians and should be used 
to assist rather than replace the clinical judgement of an 
experienced clinician caring for an individual patient.
The information provided is based on the best available 
information at the time of writing, which is May 2010. 
These guidelines will be updated every five years and 
consider new evidence as it becomes available.
New evidence
Since 2004 there have been many new studies and 
guidelines published about the management of closed 
head injury. There have been some advances in our 
understanding of the assessment and treatment of 
closed head injury but these have been incremental and 
PAGE 6  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH