Source: Page 39 (LEFT)
Page: 39, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 403
--------------------------------------------------
rules were abnormal mental status or behaviour (including 
GCS <15 or qualitative assessment), focal neurological 
deficit, clinically suspected skull fracture (non frontal scalp 
haematoma), vomiting and dangerous mechanism. Loss of 
consciousness was significant if “definite” in some and if 
“prolonged” in others. Severe headache and seizures were 
identified as significant in several. 
Kupperman et al85 took the clinically practical step of 
identifying those risk factors which strongly suggested 
the need for CT scan and differentiating them from those 
that required clinical judgement to decide whether to 
observe the child or proceed to CT scan. They made the 
practical point that where clinical judgement was used it 
should be based on experience, number of risk factors and 
a period of observation. In their summary of their clinical 
decision rule, they included their figures on the percentage 
of the population likely to be in each group, and the risk 
of clinically important brain injury in each group. This 
information could be used to help clinicians and parents to 
decide how to proceed for an individual child. 
In summary, the indications for CT scan and the clinical 
prediction rules in the paediatric literature are similar to 
those in the adult literature. There have been large well 
designed studies that support the use of structured clinical 
assessment to identify which patients should have a CT 
scan. Refer to NSW Health Infants & Children: Acute 
Management of Head Injury, second edition (PD2011_024) 
for management of head injury children.
What should be done with high risk 
mild head injury patients when CT 
scan is unavailable?
In patients with high risk mild head injury, a normal CT scan 
combined with clinical assessment will allow the patient to 
be safely discharged for home observation. If CT scan is 
unavailable then the patient will require either admission 
for prolonged observation or early transfer for CT scanning 
depending on clinical assessment of risk. Prolonged clinical 
observation for at least 24 hours, associated with clinical 
improvement, has been shown to make a significant injury 
unlikely in the majority of mild head injury patients.91 
However, those patients at highest risk for an intracranial 
injury identified by persistently abnormal GCS or clinical 
symptoms, deterioration in GCS, focal neurological deficit, 
or significant clinical suspicion of skull fracture should be 
transferred for CT scan to allow the early identification of 
potentially neurosurgically significant injury.
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 37