Source: Page 99 (LEFT)
Page: 99, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 409
--------------------------------------------------
Assessment
An eye component score of 3 or 4 implies that information 
processing is occurring and that the related arousal 
mechanisms at the brain stem are functioning,193 whereas 
a eye component score of 2 indicates that lower levels of 
the brain are functioning.193 It is not true however that 
eye opening indicates awareness; for instance patients in 
a persistent vegetative state may have spontaneous eye 
opening, and in this instance this is a reflexive action and 
does not indicate awareness of self or surroundings.197
Verbal 
As stated above, presence of speech implies a high level of 
integration in the nervous system, although it is important 
to remember that a lack of speech may be attributed to 
other factors such as tracheostomy or dysphasia. A lack of 
speech due to local factors such as this need to be carefully 
considered, as including a low score cause by local factors 
into a GCS, especially when only the sum is being used, 
falsely decreases the score. It is important to remember that 
the GCS is a measure of level of consciousness, and use a 
tracheostomy in an otherwise fully conscious patient to give 
a decreased GCS is clearly counter-intuitive and incorrect.
In terms of the gradations of verbal component score, 
oriented indicates that the patient is aware of his / her 
self and the surrounding environment,197 and is usually 
described in terms of questions about patient’s name, the 
role of the person asking the questions, the month and 
year, and the name of the hospital or health care facility. 
Confused patients can carry on a conversation but the 
content betrays disorientation and misunderstanding of 
the components described above. Inappropriate words 
describes clear and comprehensible speech,197 but using 
random words or swearing and cursing. Repeating words or 
perseveration also falls into this category. Incomprehensible 
sounds refers to moaning and groaning without 
recognisable words,197 even when an attempt to articulate 
words is being made. It is important to differentiate 
between a patient with a decreased level of consciousness 
and reduced cognition, who is unable to form words in 
response to stimulus, and an awake stroke patient for 
instance; whose dysphasia may make the task impossible. 
Clearly, the second case does not represent the situation 
which the GCS is designed to measure. None means that 
the patient is unable to verbalise at all,197 and is subject to 
the factors described above.
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 97