Source: Page 36 (RIGHT)
Page: 36, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 380
--------------------------------------------------
alertness, abnormal behaviour or cognitive impairment 
has been shown to be strongly associated with intracranial 
injury.38, 74, 115, 174 Mower et al58 used abnormal alertness 
or behaviour as major criteria in their clinical decision rule 
and Clement et al77 found confusion, restlessness and 
abnormal 3 object recall as significant risks. Similarly, in 
the paediatric literature, abnormal mental status has been 
identified as a major risk factor.49, 74, 94 Although initial 
GCS partially assesses mental status, it primarily addresses 
level of consciousness. Clinical observation of alertness, 
behaviour and cognition will detect more subtle changes 
in mental status than GCS and should be part of routine 
neurological observation. Persistent abnormal PTA testing is 
also an indication of abnormal mental status. Detection of 
abnormal alertness or behaviour and cognitive impairment 
requires careful observation by staff and relatives and 
is particularly important for adults with pre-existing 
neurological impairment. In patients with pre-existing 
neurological conditions, a lower threshold for CT scanning 
is appropriate.6, 33 
Most studies do not identify at what time post injury that 
abnormal mental status becomes a definite indication 
for CT scanning. Extrapolating from the GCS <15 at two 
hours post injury risk factor, it would be reasonable to 
identify abnormal mental status as a risk factor at two 
hours post injury and certainly by four hours post injury. 
Clinical judgement is required depending on the degree of 
abnormality as to when to order a CT scan.
Large scalp haematoma or laceration
Large scalp haematomas or lacerations are relative 
indications for CT scanning in adults. Large non 
frontal scalp lacerations have been identified as 
significant risk factors in young children.14, 49, 74, 94, 
115, 123, 130, 162, 174 
The literature is somewhat unclear about the importance 
of scalp haematomas and lacerations as clinical risk factors. 
Haydel et al32 identified “visible trauma above the clavicles” 
as a major risk factor. Mower et al58 identified scalp 
haematoma as a major risk factor and included it in their 
clinical decision rule. Smits et al47 included “contusion to 
the skull” as a minor risk factor in their CHIP rule. In the 
other major adult clinical decision rules and studies, scalp 
haematoma was not identified as a major risk factor but 
was potentially implied under the broad term “suspected 
skull fracture.” In the paediatric literature, non frontal