Source: Page 38 (RIGHT)
Page: 38, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 387
--------------------------------------------------
or worsening symptoms should be regarded as the same as 
clinical deterioration during clinical observation. Therefore, 
both patients who have a delayed presentation or who 
represent with new or worsening symptoms should be 
regarded as being at relatively high risk of intracranial injury. 
However, the overall risk of intracranial injury in patients 
who represent after mild head injuries is low if their initial 
risk was low and particularly if they had an initial normal CT 
scan.4, 6, 44, 53 
Unwitnessed event/unreliable history
A good history of injury may help predict risk of intracranial 
injury by identifying dangerous mechanism of injury or 
significant features such as prolonged loss of consciousness 
or seizures. This is of particular importance in children. 
However, in the absence of other significant risk factors 
there are few studies identifying unwitnessed event or 
unreliable history as a significant independent risk factor.140 
Paediatrics
Although paediatrics were excluded from the search 
strategy, the author believes that the evidence in the 
paediatric literature discussed below may assist clinicians 
in their decision making in the management of adults with 
closed head injury. The evidence was not identified in an 
exhaustive systematic literature search but represents the 
most relevant studies identified by the author.
In the past few years there have been several large studies 
looking at paediatric head injuries that have attempted to 
identify clinical risk factors indicating the need for CT scan 
and use these risk factors to develop clinical decision rules. 
Clinical decision rules have been developed for children by 
Palchak et al34 (2003), Haydel et al65 (2003 – New Orleans 
group), Oman et al87 (2006 – NEXUS group), Dunning 
et al138 (2006 – CHALICE group), Atakabi et al83 (2008 - 
Canadian CT Head group) and most recently Kupperman 
et al85 (2009 – PECARN group). Maguire et al86 published 
a systematic view of paediatric clinical prediction rules 
in 2009 that assessed all the major studies except the 
Kupperman study. The studies by Dunning et al enrolled 
22,772 patients and Kupperman et al enrolled 42,412 
patients and these are the two largest well designed studies 
yet performed on either adult or paediatric patients with 
head injuries.
The best predictors of the need for CT scan were similar 
in all the studies and similar to the findings of the adult 
literature. The best predictors present in nearly all prediction