Source: Page 35 (RIGHT)
Page: 35, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 375
--------------------------------------------------
also demonstrated a link between increased mortality 
and increased INR (>4). Ivascu et al79 demonstrated that 
early rapid reversal of warfarin in patients with intracranial 
haemorrhage significantly improved mortality. 
Mild head injury patients who are warfarinised are at 
significantly increased risk of traumatic intracranial 
haemorrhage particularly if they are elderly or overwarfarinised. Note that this increased risk applies to 
asymptomatic patients. They should all receive an urgent CT 
scan and have an early INR checked. Patients who have a 
traumatic injury on CT scan or who have a supratherapeutic 
INR (>4) should be admitted for observation and should 
be strongly considered for short term reversal of their anticoagulation as they are at high risk of acute deterioration 
and death. A routine repeat CT scan within 24 hours or an 
urgent repeat CT scan if there are any signs of deterioration 
is recommended for these patients. Clinical judgement is 
required about the disposition of patients with an initial 
normal CT scan and normal INR. Prolonged observation 
and close follow up either in hospital or in the community 
is reasonable until further evidence is available to guide 
management.
The evidence is less clear about the risk of traumatic ICH 
associated with anti-platelet agents or bleeding disorders. 
There are very few studies specifically addressing the issue 
and those that have been done provide contradictory 
findings.9, 89, 129, 164 There is a clear trend to suggest 
patients on anti-platelets have an increased risk of bleeding 
following intracranial haemorrhage but limited evidence 
to prove that anti-platelets independently increase the risk 
of intracranial haemorrhage for mild head injury patients. 
Extrapolating from existing anti-coagulation protocols, 
population studies on stroke and other studies on mild head 
injury, it would be reasonable to postulate that increasing 
age and the presence of more than one anti-platelet agent 
would increase the risk of bleeding. Since most patients 
on anti-platelet agents are elderly and elderly patients are 
recommended to have routine CT scans, the remaining 
clinical dilemma is what is the risk of delayed bleeding. At 
present this remains unknown and prolonged observation 
and close follow up in the community is probably prudent. 
Age
Patient age >65 years is a strong indication for CT 
scanning.20, 38, 47, 53, 60, 74, 85, 88, 115, 153, 162, 172, 174