Source: Page 20 (LEFT)
Page: 20, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 362
--------------------------------------------------
3. 
How should patients with mild head injury be assessed?
RECOMMENDATION
Strength of 
recommendation
Mild head injury patients should be assessed by a process of structured clinical assessment involving a 
combination of:
- initial clinical history and examination
- serial clinical observations 
- CT scanning if clinically indicated by risk factors identiﬁ ed on initial or serial assessment
Serial clinical observation should include minimum hourly observations of :
- vital signs. 
- pupillary reactions 
- GCS 
- alertness / behaviour / cognition
- post traumatic amnesia (PTA) (eg A-WPTAS)
If patients have no signiﬁ cant risk factors for complications of mild head injury and are clinically judged 
to be “low risk” then they should be observed until at least four hours post time of injury. 
If patients have any signiﬁ cant risk factors for complications of mild head injury then they should 
continue to be clinically observed while further assessment is performed. 
Serial clinical observations should be continued on any mild head injury patients who fail to clinically 
improve at four hours post injury or who are found to have structural lesions on CT scan.
Assessment for PTA should be performed on all mild head injury patients in the emergency department. 
Mild head injury patients who are admitted to hospital because they have structural lesions, persistent 
PTA or clinical symptoms should have daily PTA testing until they are shown to be out of PTA.
Clinical assessment using clinical risk factors or clinical decision rules can identify those patients at 
increased risk of intracranial injury requiring further investigation.
CT scanning is indicated for those mild head injured patients identiﬁ ed by structured clinical assessment 
as being at increased risk of intracranial injury.
CT scanning is the most appropriate investigation for the exclusion of neurosurgically signiﬁ cant lesions 
in mild head injured patients
If structured clinical assessment indicates the risk of intracranial injury is low, the routine use of CT 
scanning is neither clinically beneﬁ cial nor cost effective.
Skull x-rays are not sufﬁ ciently sensitive to be used as a routine screening investigation to identify 
signiﬁ cant intracranial lesions.
PAGE 18  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH