Source: Page 54 (LEFT)
Page: 54, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 357
--------------------------------------------------
- Clinical judgement is therefore required to balance 
the potential benefits versus potential harm of anticonvulsants for individual patients with closed head 
injury. 
- Anti-convulsants are therefore only indicated in the 
first week following closed head injury to reduce the 
risk of complications from early post traumatic seizures. 
They should not be routinely continued long term.
- In most patients with mild head injury prophylactic 
anti-convulsants are not indicated.
- Specific indications to consider prophylactic anticonvulsants in the first week following a closed head 
injury include:
 
-  Extradural, subdural or intracerebral haematoma on 
 
- Depressed skull fracture on CT
 
- Early post traumatic seizure in hospital
 
-  Severity of injury (low GCS / duration of coma / 
duration of PTA)
 
- Any penetrating injury
- Long term anti-convulsants should be considered after 
the first or second late post traumatic seizure (ie after 
the diagnosis of post traumatic epilepsy).17, 29, 50, 132 
Mild head injury
In most patients with mild head injury prophylactic anticonvulsants are not indicated. The risk of seizures is low 
and the risk of secondary brain injury is low. Mild head 
injury patients who have had an early post traumatic 
seizure in hospital and those with structural lesions such as 
depressed skull fractures or focal intracranial haematomas 
on CT scan should be considered for anti-convulsants and 
discussed with a neurosurgical service. 
 Moderate to severe head injury
In moderate and severe head injury patients there is a 
stronger case to consider prophylactic anti-convulsants 
especially in those with structural lesions on CT scan. The 
risk of early post traumatic seizures is greater and the 
potential for secondary brain injury from these seizures is 
increased. Prolonged post traumatic seizures are of most 
concern and may be difficult to recognise in intubated 
patients. Therefore, prophylactic anti-convulsants are more 
likely to be recommended in these patients. It should 
be noted that most intubated patients in NSW receive 
analgesia and sedation with morphine and midazolam 
infusions and so are already receiving a benzodiazepine 
anti-convulsant. The decision to use anti-convulsants should 
be discussed with the relevant neurosurgical service.
PAGE 52  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH