Source: Page 53 (LEFT)
Page: 53, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 409
--------------------------------------------------
Post traumatic seizures are a recognised complication of 
closed head injuries with incidence depending largely on 
severity of injury. Penetrating injuries have a much higher 
incidence of post traumatic seizures. Post traumatic seizures 
are classified as either immediate, early (0-7 days) or late/
delayed (>7 days).144 Immediate and early post traumatic 
seizures are thought to be associated with the acute injury 
and are not significantly associated with the development 
of post traumatic epilepsy. Late post traumatic seizures 
are less likely to be related to the acute injury and are 
more likely to be associated with the development of post 
traumatic epilepsy.144 
Brief generalised post traumatic seizures immediately 
following mild head injury are not usually associated with 
poor outcome or intracranial injury. These immediate 
seizures are frequently seen on sporting fields and in 
young children. It has been proposed that these immediate 
seizures be called “concussive convulsions” and it has been 
suggested that they are not an epileptic phenomena.64, 
107, 134 McCrory et al145 demonstrated that outcome was 
universally good for these “concussive convulsions” in elite 
Australian sportsmen.
Immediate and early post traumatic seizures are relatively 
common in patients with mild closed head injury with a 
reported incidence of up to 5%.144, 173 The literature is 
somewhat contradictory about the risk of seizures being 
associated with intracranial injury. Many of the larger 
studies found that post traumatic seizures were not 
significantly associated with intracranial injury.85, 115, 168, 172, 
174 However, Haydel et al32 found that they were significant 
and Smits et al47 found that while they were not statistically 
significant, included them in their decision rule because 
of their perceived clinical importance. Neidlinger et al146 
found that the “yield of unsuspected major intracranial 
abnormality on CT scan justifies a policy of its routine 
use in trauma patients with seizure or who are post ictal, 
regardless of prior seizure history.”
Immediate or early post traumatic seizures are more 
common (up to 30%) in patients with moderate to severe 
closed head injury, and are more likely to be associated with 
significant intracranial injury.144, 173 There is an association 
with underlying structural lesions and the potential for 
secondary brain injury especially with prolonged, focal 
or delayed seizures. Any moderate to severe head injury 
patient who has a post traumatic seizure warrants a CT 
scan to exclude significant underlying pathology and 
then the need for prophylactic anti-convulsants should be 
considered.
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 51