Source: Page 31 (RIGHT)
Page: 31, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 353
--------------------------------------------------
fail to clinically improve, both CT scanning and prolonged 
clinical observation are indicated. In the patients where 
clinical judgement is required this should be based on the 
clinician’s experience, the number of identified risk factors 
and clinical observation of the patient. 
Early CT scanning allows identification of acute extradural 
or subdural haematomas or depressed skull fractures 
requiring neurosurgical intervention and other structural 
lesions such as intracerebral haematomas or minor 
skull fractures that put the patient at increased risk of 
deterioration or complications such as post traumatic 
seizures, and disabling post concussive symptoms. However, 
it is important to recognise that the absence of a structural 
lesion on CT scan does not exclude the possibility of 
deterioration, post traumatic seizures or significant post 
concussion symptoms.
Patients with an abnormal CT scan should be discussed 
with a neurosurgical service and considered for prolonged 
observation in hospital. Conversely, a normal CT scan 
makes acute clinical deterioration highly unlikely and 
allows safe discharge for home observation as long as 
the patient is clinically improving and does not have a 
known coagulopathy. A normal CT scan is useful to rule 
out structural lesions but does not exclude the possibility 
of significant post concussion symptoms. It is important 
to stress that CT scanning should be used as a clinical tool 
in conjunction with clinical assessment and observation as 
part of an overall management strategy for mild head injury 
patterns.
Individual factors predicting risk of 
intracranial injury and therefore the need 
for CT scanning in patients with mild head 
injury:
Initial GCS
A persistent GCS <15 at two hours post injury 
is a strong indication for CT scanning. An initial 
GCS 14 on admission is a relative indication for CT 
scanning.31, 33, 35, 36, 47, 48, 50-53, 56, 58, 62, 70, 74, 139
Several studies have noted the heterogeneity of the original 
GCS 13-15 mild head injury classification and these findings 
are summarised in Appendix 1. Patients with an initial GCS 
13 have been shown to have similar rates of intracranial 
injury to those with initial GCS 9-12.53, 105 Recent studies 
on mild head injury that published data on patients with