Source: Page 34 (LEFT)
Page: 34, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 390
--------------------------------------------------
during their hospital stay. A formal assessment tool like the 
A-WPTAS (see Appendix 4) or a simple memory assessment 
technique such as three object recall can be used as an 
objective bedside screening test for post traumatic amnesia, 
to supplement the ‘history’ of post traumatic amnesia 
for events. Patients who have evidence of prolonged 
post traumatic amnesia and particularly those who have 
persistent post traumatic amnesia at four hours post injury 
should be considered for CT scanning.
Post traumatic seizure
Post traumatic seizures have not been shown to be 
a major risk factor for intracranial injury but clinical 
considerations make them a strong indication for CT 
scanning.74, 133, 162
Post traumatic seizures are normally classified as immediate, 
early (<7days) or delayed (>7days).144 Brief generalised post 
traumatic seizures immediately following mild head injury 
are relatively common and are not usually associated with 
poor outcome. They are frequently seen on sporting fields 
and in young children. It has been proposed that these 
immediate seizures be called “concussive convulsions” 
and it has been suggested that they are not an epileptic 
phenomena.64, 107, 134 McCrory et al145 demonstrated 
that outcome was universally good for these “concussive 
convulsions” in elite Australian sportsmen. Prolonged 
or focal post traumatic seizures are more likely to be 
associated with significant intracranial injury. Some patients 
who have seizures associated with trauma may have preexisting epilepsy which may either have caused the seizure 
or resulted in a lower seizure threshold.146 However, most 
mild head injury studies do not differentiate between types 
of seizures when assessing risk factors for intracranial 
injury.74, 132 The literature is somewhat contradictory about 
the risk of seizures being associated with intracranial injury. 
Many of the larger studies found that post traumatic 
seizures were not significantly associated with intracranial 
injury.85, 115, 168, 172, 174 Haydel et al,32 however, found that 
they were significant and Smits et al47 found that they 
were not statistically significant but included them in their 
decision rule because of their perceived clinical importance. 
Neidlinger et al146 found that the “yield of unsuspected 
major intracranial abnormality on CT scan justifies a policy 
of its routine use in trauma patients with seizure or who are 
post ictal, regardless of prior seizure history.” 
From a practical viewpoint, any patient who has a definite 
PAGE 32  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH