Source: Page 23 (RIGHT)
Page: 23, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 382
--------------------------------------------------
- Serial neurological observations should include 
a minimum of hourly GCS assessment, pupillary 
reactions, PTA and vital signs. Neurological 
observations should also include qualitative assessment 
of alertness, behaviour and cognition to detect subtle 
changes in mental status not assessed by the Glasgow 
Coma Scale.
- Mild head injury patients should have initial serial 
neurological observations until at least four hours post 
time of injury at which point decisions about further 
management should be made.
- Serial neurological observations should be continued 
on patients who are admitted to hospital for at least 
24 hours and until patients clinically improve and are 
discharged home. 
Post traumatic amnesia (PTA) testing
Amnesia for the event, short-term memory loss, 
anterograde amnesia and PTA are all terms used to 
describe the disruption of memory that typically results 
from a traumatic head injury. The different terms describe 
a continuum of memory disruption, and the use of the 
individual terms depends on the duration of memory 
loss and individual preference. Amnesia for the event 
is common and of little clinical significance. Retrograde 
and anterograde amnesia are typically used to refer to 
the duration of loss of memory for events preceding or 
following an injury. PTA is the period of time during which 
a person is unable to lay down new memories following 
an injury. PTA and anterograde amnesia essentially refer to 
the same phenomena but some patients may have memory 
for events yet still be unable to lay down new memories 
– the so called islands of memory. Stiell et al56 identified a 
duration of greater than 30 minutes of retrograde amnesia 
as being a significant risk factor for intracranial injury. 
Smits et al47 identified a duration of PTA of greater than 2 
hours as being a minor risk factor and greater than 4 hours 
as being a major risk factor for intracranial injury. Many 
studies have shown that persistent PTA is a significant risk 
factor for poor functional outcome in all grades of head 
injury. Any persistent inability to lay down new memories 
following blunt trauma is perhaps most simply referred to 
as PTA and the duration of PTA may be used to predict 
the risk of intracranial injury and the risk of persistent 
post concussion symptoms. PTA is the term that will be 
predominantly used in this guideline.