Source: Page 24 (LEFT)
Page: 24, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 422
--------------------------------------------------
While it has been identified that prolonged PTA is a risk 
factor for significant post concussion symptoms,3, 109 the 
standard tool for identifying PTA in NSW, the Westmead 
PTA Scale (Appendix 3), is designed to be used over several 
days. There has been considerable interest in developing 
bedside PTA screening tools to allow early prediction of 
which patients are at greatest risk of developing post 
concussion symptoms. A simple bedside test that can 
determine whether the patient is out of post traumatic 
amnesia at the time of the test would be beneficial for both 
emergency department testing and ward based testing. 
The Extended Glasgow Coma Scale and the Abbreviated 
Westmead PTA Scale are examples of tools developed to try 
to identify persistent PTA in mild head injury patients as a 
marker for increased risk of post concussion symptoms.106, 
109 Recent Australian studies have looked at using specific 
bedside tools such as the Revised Westmead Post Traumatic 
Amnesia Scale in the emergency department to better 
identify patients with persistent PTA so that these patients 
can be more closely followed up as they are more likely 
to suffer significant post concussion symptoms.106-108 The 
Abbreviated Westmead PTA Scale (A-WPTAS), developed 
and validated113 from the previously validated Revised 
Westmead PTA Scale, has been successfully trialled 
in various New South Wales emergency departments 
(Appendix 4).
From a practical point of view, all patients with mild head 
injury should be assessed for post traumatic amnesia. It 
is useful to assess the patient’s recall of events following 
their injury by asking specific questions such as what is 
their first clear memory, who helped them at the scene and 
how they got to hospital. This can be used to estimate the 
period of post traumatic amnesia (anterograde amnesia). 
Clinicians should also look for symptoms of post traumatic 
amnesia such as repetitive questioning, failure to remember 
clinical staff and inability to remember events during their 
hospital stay. A formal assessment tool like the A-WPTAS 
or a simple memory assessment technique such as three 
object recall can be used as a bedside screening test for 
post traumatic amnesia, to supplement the ‘history’ of 
amnesia for events. Patients who have persistent post 
traumatic amnesia should be considered for CT scanning, 
prolonged observation and close follow up. Mild head 
injury patients who are admitted to hospital because 
they have structural lesions, persistent PTA or clinical 
symptoms should have daily PTA testing until they are 
shown to be out of PTA.
PAGE 22  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH