Source: Page 103 (LEFT)
Page: 103, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 480
--------------------------------------------------
Appendix 6: Mild Head Injury Discharge Advice
Mild Head Injury Advice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2008
Important points about Mild Head Injury
You had a mild head injury. Most people recover rapidly following a mild head injury. A few people may suffer from 
symptoms over a longer period. 
There is a small risk of you developing serious complications so you should be watched closely by another adult for 
24 hours after the accident. Please read the following. It outlines what signs to look out for after a head injury 
and what you need to do if you have problems.
Warning Signs
!
If you show any of these symptoms or signs after your head injury, or you get worse , go to 
the nearest hospital, doctor or telephone an ambulance immediately.
Fainting or drowsiness - or you can’t wake up 
 
❖
Acting strange, saying things that do not make sense (change in behaviour) 
 
❖
A constant severe headache or a headache that gets worse 
 
❖
Vomiting or throwing up more than twice
 
❖
Cannot remember new events, recognise people or places (increased confusion)
 
❖
Pass out or have a blackout or a seizure (any jerking of the body or limbs)
 
❖
Cannot move parts of your body or clumsiness
 
❖
Blurred vision or slurred speech
 
❖
Continual ﬂuid or bleeding from the ear or nose
 
❖
The ﬁrst 24-48 hours after injury
Warning Signs
You should be observed and return to hospital if you develop any of 
the above warning signs.
Rest / Sleeping
Rest and avoid strenuous activity for at least 24 hours. It is alright for you to 
sleep tonight but you should be checked every four hours by someone to make 
sure you are alright.
Driving
Do not drive for at least 24 hours. You should not drive until you feel much 
better and can concentrate properly. Talk to your doctor.
Drinking / 
Drugs
Do not drink alcohol or take sleeping pills or recreational drugs in the next 48 
hours. All of these can make you feel worse.They also make it hard for other 
people to tell whether the injury is affecting you or not.  
Pain Relief
Use paracetamol or paracetamol/codeine for headaches.  Do not use 
aspirin or anti inﬂammatory pain reliever such as ibuprofen or naproxen 
(NSAIDs), which may increase the risk of complications.
Sports
Do not play sports for at least 24 hours.
See your local doctor if you are not starting to feel better within a few days of your injury.
Adapted from “Mild Head Injury Discharge Advice” author Dr Duncan Reed (2007) Director of Trauma Gosford Hospital. NSW Institute of Trauma and Injury Management
This discharge advice information is taken  from the Motor Accidents Authority of NSW, Guideline for mild traumatic brain injury following closed 
head injury – first edition 2008, ISBN 978-1-921422-08-9
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 101