Source: Page 94 (LEFT)
Page: 94, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 508
--------------------------------------------------
GLASGOW COMA SCALE (GCS) AND ABBREVIATED WESTMEAD PTA  SCALE (A-WPTAS)  
Administration and Scoring 
1. Orientation Questions
Question 1: WHAT IS YOUR NAME?  
The patient must provide their full name.
Question 2: WHAT IS THE NAME OF THIS PLACE?  
The patient has to be able to give the name of the hospital. For example: Westmead Hospital. (NB: The 
patient does not get any points for just saying ‘hospital’.) If the patient can not name the hospital, give them a 
choice of 3 options. To do this, pick 2 other similar sized hospitals in your local area or neighbouring region. In 
Westmead Hospital’s case the 3 choices are ‘Nepean Hospital, Westmead Hospital or Liverpool Hospital’. 
Question 3: WHY ARE YOU HERE? 
The patient must know why they were brought into hospital. e.g. they were injured in a car accident, fell, 
assaulted or injured playing sport. If the patient does not know, give them three options, including the correct 
reason.
Question 4: WHAT MONTH ARE WE IN?  
For emphasis the examiner can ask what month are we in now? The patient must name the month. For 
example, if the patient answers ‘the 6th month’, the examiner must ask the further question ‘What is the 6th 
month called?’. 
Question 5: WHAT YEAR ARE WE IN?  
It is considered correct for patients to answer in the short form ‘08’, instead of ‘2008’. Also, an acceptable 
alternative prompt (for the rest of the 2000’s) is ‘The year is 2000 and what?’ 
2. Picture recognition 
Straight after administering the GCS (standardised questions), administer the A-WPTAS by presenting the 3 
Westmead PTA cards. Picture Cards  the ﬁrst time - T1 : Show patients the target set of picture cards for 
about 5 seconds and ensure that they can repeat the names of each card. Tell the patient to remember the 
pictures for the next testing in about one hour. Picture Cards at each subsequent time T2-T5: Ask patient, 
“What were the three pictures that I showed you earlier?”  Scoring:
For patients who free recall 
UÊ
all 3 pictures correctly, assign a score of 1 per picture and add up the patient’s 
GCS (out of 15) and A-WPTAS memory component to give the A-WPTAS score (total = 18). Present the 3 
target pictures again and re-test in 1 hour. 
For patients who can not free recall, or only partially free recall, the 3 correct pictures, present the 9-object 
UÊ
recognition chart. If patient can recognise any correctly, score 1 per correct item and record their GCS 
and A-WPTAS score (total = 18). Present the target set of pictures again and re-test in 1 hour. 
For patients who neither remember any pictures by free call nor recognition
UÊ
, show the patient the target 
set of 3 picture cards again for re-test in 1 hour.
Shores & Lammel (2007) - further copies of this score sheet can be downloaded from http://www.psy.mq.edu.au/GCS
Research and development of the A-WPTAS supported by the Motor Accidents Authority NSW
PAGE 92  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH