Source: Page 18 (LEFT)
Page: 18, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 418
--------------------------------------------------
importance of identifying abnormalities on CT scan that do 
not require clinical intervention, such as small intracranial 
haematomas and small non-depressed skull fractures. 
Clearly it is important to identify intracranial lesions that 
require neurosurgical intervention but is it beneficial to 
identify abnormalities on CT scan that do not require 
intervention? Concerns about radiation exposure and 
resource utilisation have influenced this debate. The trend 
in the literature is to develop strategies to identify clinically 
important lesions while minimising the number of CT 
scans performed. The outcome of this strategy is that a 
small number of minor abnormalities on CT will be missed. 
Therefore, not all abnormalities detected on CT scan should 
be regarded as clinically important.
Acute clinical symptoms associated with mild head injury 
are common and are sometimes referred to as concussion 
symptoms. These include abnormal mental status (alertness/
behaviour/cognition), post traumatic amnesia, vomiting, 
headache, dizziness and lethargy. In the majority of mild 
head injury patients, their acute clinical symptoms will 
rapidly improve and they may be left with mild post 
concussion symptoms or return to completely normal. In 
most patients these symptoms start to improve within a 
couple of hours of injury and it is unusual for significant 
symptoms to persist for more than 4 hours post time 
of injury. Persistent acute clinical symptoms indicate a 
significant functional injury and an underlying structural 
lesion should be ruled out with a CT scan. Patients with 
persistent acute clinical symptoms with a normal CT scan 
should be admitted to hospital for prolonged observation 
until their symptoms start to improve. They should have 
continued neurological observations and post traumatic 
amnesia (PTA) testing. 
Post concussion symptoms are relatively common following 
mild head injury and may have significant cognitivebehavioural-social impact on patients and their families.3, 
8-10, 76, 93-99 Post concussion symptoms include headaches, 
dizziness, fatigue, memory problems and other cognitive, 
behavioural and social dysfunction. Post concussion 
symptoms have been shown in some studies to occur in 
up to 25 - 50% of patients with mild head injury,3, 8, 10, 76, 
94-96, 98, 99 but in about 10% of cases they may persist with 
at times significant psychological overlay as post concussion 
syndrome.3, 8, 10, 76, 94, 98, 99 In an Australian study Faux et 
al100 found that 15% of patients with mild traumatic brain 
injury continued to complain of post traumatic headache 
at 3 months compared to 2% of controls. These symptoms 
usually resolve within three months. The cognitivePAGE 16  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH