Source: Page 21 (LEFT)
Page: 21, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 383
--------------------------------------------------
Clinical history and examination remain the basis for the 
initial assessment of patients with closed head injury. 
However, additional clinical tools are available to assist in 
assessment and management. These clinical tools include 
Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), initial serial neurological 
observation, post traumatic amnesia (PTA) testing, 
clinical decision rules, CT scanning and prolonged clinical 
observation in hospital.
Glasgow coma scale
The Glasgow Coma Scale (Appendix 5) was originally 
developed by Teasdale and Jennett104 for the neurological 
observation of patients with prolonged coma. It was 
intended to ensure inter-observer reliability and to identify 
deterioration of patients over time. Since its original 
introduction its use has been extended such that it is now 
the standard tool for assessment of level of consciousness 
in many clinical settings. 
GCS is used both for the initial assessment and classification 
of closed head injuries and for serial assessment of closed 
head injuries. Initial GCS on admission to hospital is used 
to classify head injuries into the broad prognostic groups 
of mild (GCS 14-15), moderate (GCS 9-13) and severe 
(GCS 3-8). The Brain Trauma Foundation concluded that 
there is good quality evidence to relate initial GCS score 
to outcome.15 However, it must be noted that these are 
broad outcome measures and initial GCS is only about 75% 
accurate so treatment should be individualised.15
GCS is unreliable if measured before initial resuscitation 
and stabilisation of the ABCDE’s has been completed.15 
Fearnside et al105 identified that both intubation and 
sedation interfered with accurate assessment of initial 
GCS in more severely injured patients and there is lack 
of uniformity of approach to classifying GCS in these 
situations.
The other significant area of controversy relates to timing of 
initial GCS. In unstable patients requiring resuscitation, the 
optimal time to record initial GCS remains controversial.15, 
105 Similarly, in mild head injury patients the time of 
presentation related to time of injury will influence the 
initial GCS and therefore potentially influence clinical 
decision making in relation to CT scanning.6, 10, 31, 35 
Perhaps the most crucial point to note about initial GCS is 
that it cannot predict individual outcome for patients with 
similar GCS scores. Thus, an individual patient with an initial 
GCS of 14-15 may have a variety of outcomes including 
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 19