Source: Page 50 (LEFT)
Page: 50, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 343
--------------------------------------------------
No prospective randomised multi-centre trials specifically 
addressing the issue of analgesia in patients with closed 
head injury could be identified. Interestingly, Bazarian 
et al82 in a review of management of mild head injury 
patients in selected emergency departments in the USA 
found that nearly 50% of patients did not have assessment 
of pain documented and 50% of those received no 
analgesia. There are many studies addressing the issue of 
analgesia in the broader patient population. The following 
recommendations are based on existing analgesia clinical 
practice guidelines including those available via the NSW 
Health Clinical Information Access Program (CIAP) such as 
Therapeutic Guidelines.171, 172
Mild head injury
Isolated mild head injury patients
- Most headaches associated with isolated mild head 
injuriy will respond to simple analgesia such as 
paracetamol.
- If paracetamol (1g q 4-6 hr max 4g/day) alone is 
ineffective then codeine phosphate (60mg q 4-6hr 
max 240mg/daily) or low dose immediate release 
oxycodone (5-10mg q 4-6hr) can be added after 
the need for an initial or repeat CT scan to exclude 
a clinically significant intracranial lesion has been 
considered.
- The aim of analgesia in patients with isolated mild 
head injury with associated headache should be to 
relieve pain without causing excessive drowsiness. 
Patients should always remain easy to rouse.
- Analgesics containing aspirin or NSAIDs should not be 
used due to the increased risk of bleeding from platelet 
dysfunction.
- Patients with persistent or worsening severe headaches 
requesting increasing analgesia should be clinically 
reassessed and the need for a CT scan to exclude a 
clinically significant intracranial lesion considered.
- Patients who are already drowsy or difficult to rouse 
should not be given additional opioids due to the risk 
of respiratory depression. Patients with persistent or 
worsening drowsiness should be clinically reassessed.
- If a headache has not responded to simple analgesics 
or a patient is abnormally drowsy following analgesia 
then the patient should be clinically re-assessed for 
potential complications. Specific questions that should 
be considered include:
PAGE 48  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH