Source: Page 43 (LEFT)
Page: 43, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 430
--------------------------------------------------
to adjust their lifestyle if required. The best advice to give a 
patient who suffers from post concussion symptoms is that 
the symptoms will resolve with time and that they should 
take a stepwise graded return to sport, work and study. The 
sports medicine approach to concussion of graded return 
to play translates well to all mild head injury patients.153 
However, there has been a tendency in the past not to 
mention post concussion symptoms in discharge advice 
which may lead to unnecessary distress and confusion 
for patients and their relatives and hinder their recovery. 
As Jagoda et al9 for the American College of Emergency 
Physicians pointed out, “a glaring omission from most mild 
TBI discharge instructions is the lack of any mention of 
the possibility of the patient developing post-concussive 
symptoms.” Holm et al102 for the WHO Collaborating 
Taskforce on Mild Traumatic Brain Injury concluded that the 
only interventions that have been shown to be beneficial 
for post concussion symptoms are education, reassurance 
and time. Therefore, it is important to provide education 
about post concussion symptoms to all mild head injury 
patients. All patients should be given written advice and 
advised to see a doctor if they are not feeling better within 
a few days of injury.
Both Fung et al155 and Bazarian et al82 found that most 
head injury discharge advice sheets in a selection of US 
emergency departments were either not routinely provided 
or were difficult to understand or did not include sufficient 
information. Similarly, Yates et al156 in a New Zealand 
study found that a head injury discharge sheet was better 
understood when written in a simplified form using less 
complex language. 
The mild head injury advice sheet developed for the 
original version of these guidelines included most of the 
relevant information suggested by the literature and was 
well received during the implementation trials and after 
publication. It has since been further modified by the 
Motor Accidents Authority (MAA) NSW103 after community 
trials to simplify the language and format in line with the 
recommendations of Fung et al.155 This updated mild head 
injury discharge advice sheet is included in this guideline 
and is available in several languages through the MAA 
website.
All patients with mild head injury should be advised to 
follow up with their local doctor if they are not feeling 
better within a few days. Patients at higher risk of post 
concussions symptoms should be advised to routinely follow 
up with their local doctor within two or three days of 
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 41