Source: Page 24 (RIGHT)
Page: 24, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 375
--------------------------------------------------
Summary
- The identification of persistent PTA in mild head injury 
patients is a potentially useful marker for the risk of 
intracranial injury and the risk of developing post 
concussive symptoms.
- PTA testing should be performed on any patient 
presenting to hospital following mild head injury. 
- The Revised and Abbreviated Westmead PTA Scales 
are useful bedside tools for assessing PTA in the 
emergency department
Clinical decision rules
Clinical decision rules are increasingly being used to 
assist clinicians in determining the need for particular 
investigations or management. By identifying individual risk 
factors and combining them to establish clinical decision 
rules, which are then prospectively validated, useful 
evidence based diagnostic tools to assist management can 
be developed. Well established clinical decision rules also 
include the NEXUS criteria for cervical spine assessment and 
the Ottawa Ankle Rules.114, 115
Although clinical decision rules are potentially very useful, 
clinicians need to be aware of the specific inclusion/
exclusion criteria used to develop them and the overall 
quality of the original studies before applying them to their 
patients.9, 48 The other important point for clinicians to 
consider is what level of risk they are prepared to accept. 
No clinical decision rule can entirely rule out a significant 
finding for an individual patient, and different clinical 
decision rules will have different levels of risk. In patients 
with mild head injury it is important to have high negative 
predictive value for ruling out significant intracranial injuries 
but this comes at a cost of lower specificity and therefore 
the need for more CT scanning. While all the clinical 
decision rules aim to rule out significant neurosurgical 
lesions, they have different approaches to the value of 
identifying intracranial lesions on CT scan that do not 
require intervention. Clearly it is important to identify 
intracranial lesions that require neurosurgical intervention, 
but is it beneficial to identify abnormalities on CT scan 
that do not require intervention? Concerns about radiation 
exposure and resource utilisation have influenced this 
debate. The trend in the literature is to develop strategies 
to identify clinically important lesions while minimising the 
number of CT scans performed. Essentially, if you want 
to do less CT scans you have to accept that you will miss 
some intracranial abnormalities that are unlikely to require 
intervention.