Source: Page 22 (RIGHT)
Page: 22, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 422
--------------------------------------------------
neurological observation are the early identification of 
acute neurological deterioration and the identification and 
monitoring of persistent mild neurological deficits. Serial 
neurological observations remain the basic standard of care 
for the initial management of mild head injury patients and 
should be used in conjunction with clinical decision rules 
to determine the need for CT scanning and / or prolonged 
observation. The qualitative aspects of serial neurological 
observation may assist in identifying acute deterioration 
or subtle functional abnormality before there is a change 
in GCS. Subtle drowsiness, mild disorientation to time, 
inattention and mildly disorganised thought processes with 
subtle post traumatic amnesia can easily be missed by over 
reliance on GCS in a patient who is awake and orientated in 
person and place.
Controversy exists over the appropriate duration of serial 
neurological observation for both mild head injury patients 
who are improving and those who have persistent clinical 
symptoms or abnormalities on CT scan. Although four 
hours of initial neurological observations post injury are 
fairly standard following mild head injury, there is little 
evidence to support this. There is also some debate as to 
whether the initial period of observation should be until 
four hours post injury or for four hours following arrival 
at hospital. Studies that reported time of presentation 
showed that most patients present at one to two hours 
post injury. Clinically most uncomplicated mild head injury 
patients will start to improve within two to four hours post 
time of injury. Stiell et al35 demonstrated that GCS<15 at 
two hours post injury was one of the most significant risk 
factors for intracranial injury. Since this guideline has used 
these clinically important criteria, it was felt that the initial 
clinical observation period should also be based on time 
post injury rather than four hours observation from the 
time of arrival at hospital. It is important that patients who 
present one hour post injury are not treated the same as 
those who present at four hours post injury with “routine 
observations” for four hours. If the patient who presents 
at four hours post injury is not clinically improving then 
they are at increased risk of intracranial injury and warrant 
CT scanning whereas the same patient at one hour post 
injury probably only requires observation unless there is 
another strong indication for CT scanning eg suspected 
skull fracture, seizure, warfarin etc. The initial period of 
neurological observation should therefore be until at 
least four hours post time of head injury at which point 
clinical decisions should be made if they are not clinically 
improving.