Source: Page 6 (LEFT)
Page: 6, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 347
--------------------------------------------------
The initial management plan for adults is based upon 
recommendations to be followed subject to the clinician's 
judgement in each case.
The recommendations however, are not prescriptive nor 
are they rigid procedural paths. It is recognised that the 
recommendations may not suit all patients in all clinical 
situations. They are intended to provide a clinically practical 
approach to the initial management of closed head injuries 
based on the current best available evidence. However, as 
with all guidelines, it should be remembered that they are a 
clinical tool and should not replace clinical judgement. The 
guideline relies on individual clinicians to decipher the needs 
of individual patients.
All recommendations regarding pre-hospital care should be 
read and considered in conjunction with the Ambulance 
Service of NSW. 
Guidelines for the initial management of head injury in 
children can be found at http://www.health.nsw.gov.au/
policies/pd/2011/pdf/PD2011_024.pdf
Aims and objectives
The guideline is intended to assist clinicians throughout 
NSW in delivering optimal care to patients with closed head 
injury. It aims to provide information to support clinical 
decision making, rather than dictate what decisions should 
be made.
The clinical questions addressed:
1 What is the deﬁ nition of a mild head injury?
2 What are the clinically important complications of mild head injury?
3 How should patients with mild head injury be assessed?
4 Which patients with mild head injury require a CT scan?
5 What should be done with high risk mild head injury patients when CT scan is unavailable?
6 What should be done when patients with mild head injury deteriorate? 
7 When can patients with mild head injury be safely discharged?
8 What discharge advice should be provided?
9 What are the proven treatments for patients with moderate head injury?
10 What are the proven treatments for patients with severe head injury?
11 When should patients with closed head injury be transferred to hospitals with neurosurgical facilities?
12 What analgesia should patients with closed head injury receive? 
13 Which patients with closed head injury should receive anti-convulsants?
PAGE 4  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH