Source: Page 25 (LEFT)
Page: 25, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 426
--------------------------------------------------
Clinical decision rules for adult patients with mild head 
injury have been developed through studies of large 
cohorts of patients and prospectively applied to patients 
to determine their sensitivity, specificity and negative 
predictive value.31, 32, 35, 47, 48, 56, 58, 116 These studies aim to 
identify those patients at increased risk of intracranial injury 
and develop clinical decision rules about which patients 
require CT scanning or prolonged observation. The best 
studies should be well designed and prospectively internally 
validated in the original population and then externally 
validated by other groups in other populations. The main 
design features of these trials are summarised in Evidence 
Table 1 and Appendix 1. 
The most consistent findings of these studies are that 
abnormal GCS or mental status, clinical suspicion of skull 
fracture, focal neurological deficit, vomiting, coagulopathy 
and age > 65 are the best predictors of risk of intracranial 
injury. Other relevant predictors of risk include mechanism 
of injury, prolonged loss of consciousness, post traumatic 
amnesia, severe headache and seizure. Depending on their 
inclusion / exclusion criteria the authors used combinations 
of these risk factors to derive clinical decision rules of 
varying sensitivity and specificity (Evidence Table 1 and 
Appendix 1). At present, the findings of both Haydel et 
al32 and Stiell et al35 have been adopted as policy by the 
American College of Emergency Physicians (USA),9 whilst 
the findings of Stiell et al35 have been adapted by the 
NICE guidelines (UK).117 The other widely known clinical 
prediction rule is NEXUS II.58
Ibanez et al33 in 2004 attempted to prospectively identify 
clinical risk factors predicting intracranial injury and 
to assess the reliability of previously published clinical 
guidelines. They found that while clinical risk factors could 
not detect all intracranial injuries they could be used to 
detect clinically relevant lesions with a negative predictive 
value approaching 99%. They also concluded clinicians 
should be aware of the limitations of clinical decision rules 
when using clinical guidelines. An Australian study in 2004 
by Rosengren et al118 looked at applying the clinical decision 
rules developed by Haydel et al32 and Stiell et al35 to 
Australian practice and concluded that both had limitations. 
More recently an Australian study by Fong et al57 developed 
a local guideline by adapting the findings of Haydel et al32 
and Stiell et al35 and applying the resultant guideline to an 
Australian population with satisfactory results. The authors 
stressed the point that no clinical decision rule is infallible 
and that appropriate explanation and discharge advice was 
important.
Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH  PAGE 23