Source: Page 106 (LEFT)
Page: 106, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 338
--------------------------------------------------
Appendix 8: Methodology
A8.1 
General search strategy
Comprehensive search strategies for both Medline and 
Embase were guided by each of the clinical questions. A 
general text-word based strategy was used to search the 
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR), the 
Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) 
and SCOPUS. The searches were executed for the period 
1980 to 30th October 2004 (1st Ed.) and updated for 
the 2nd Ed. (2004-2010). The results from each of these 
searches were filtered in accordance with the exclusion 
and inclusion criteria (see below) and then assessed for 
relevance to the clinical questions. The search strategies are 
listed in Appendix 9.
In addition, reference lists of previous guidelines and key 
papers were used to identify other key references, including 
pre-2004 literature. SCOPUS and Google Scholar were used 
to execute author-based searches, citation mapping and 
grey literature searching. The following websites were also 
searched (using relevant free text terms):
A8.2  
Inclusion and exclusion criteria
Conditions
Exclusion Criteria
- Closed head injury studies
-  Penetrating head injury or brain damage from stroke/ 
- Aged > 16 years
- Meta-analyses, systematic reviews, clinical guidelines 
incorporating systematic reviews, controlled trials, 
comparative studies.
-  Aged < 16 years 
-  Narrative reviews, letters, editorials, case studies/ series
-  Studies using non-human subjects
A8.3  
Strength of recommendations
This guideline uses the National Health and Medical 
Research Council (NHMRC) overall grades of 
recommendation to indicate the strength of the body of 
evidence underpinning each recommendation. The body 
of evidence reflects the evidence components of all the 
studies relevant to each recommendation. The evidence 
components are assessed according to the NHMRC body 
of evidence matrix (see table below). The overall grade of 
the recommendation is determined based on a summation 
of the rating for each individual component of the body of 
evidence. Please note that a recommendation cannot be 
graded A or B unless the evidence base and consistency of 
the evidence are both rated A or B.44
PAGE 104  Initial Management of Closed Head Injury in Adults, 2nd Edition  NSW HEALTH