Source: Page 33 (LEFT)
Page: 33, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 298
--------------------------------------------------
SURGICAL MANAGEMENT
KEY POINTS
 
• Evacuate a large traumatic hematoma before 
neurological deterioration develops, irrespective of the 
GCS score.
 
• For evacuation of an acute SDH, perform a large 
trauma craniotomy to achieve optimal damage control 
and provide the option for a primary decompressive 
craniectomy (bone flap left out).
 
• Following hematoma evacuation, consider if the bone 
flap can be replaced without compressing the brain by 
evaluating factors such as burden of concomitant brain 
injuries, other extracranial injuries, availability of ICP 
monitoring, and ICU facilities. Leave the bone flap out if 
replacing it could cause brain compression.
 
• Secondary decompressive craniectomy is effective in 
controlling ICP and improves long-term outcome.
Surgical Indications
Surgery for patients with TBI is most commonly performed 
to evacuate an EDH or SDH or to decrease pressure on the 
brain resulting from cerebral contusions or intracerebral 
hematomas. Comatose patients presenting to the ED 
should be taken to surgery immediately upon arrival if 
a large hematoma is identified as the likely cause of the 
coma and the patient has a chance of meaningful recovery. 
Even if a patient has a relatively high GCS score, evacuate 
a large (> 25 mL) traumatic hematoma before neurological 
deterioration develops from hematoma enlargement or 
brain swelling. A lower threshold for surgical intervention 
may apply to posterior fossa lesions. Admitted patients 
who undergo neurological deterioration from delayed 
development or enlargement of a hematoma require 
prompt surgical evacuation to prevent further neurological 
worsening. 
In patients with an acute SDH, perform a large craniotomy 
for optimal damage control, including evacuation of the 
hematoma, identification of the bleeding source (e.g., 
bridging veins, temporal base, superficial contusion), and 
meticulous hemostasis. Concordant with the BTF Guidelines 
for the Management of Severe TBI, 4th Edition, a large 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY