Source: Page 8 (LEFT)
Page: 8, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 316
--------------------------------------------------
BASIC ASSESSMENT
KEY POINTS
 
• The GCS provides for the reliable assessment of level of 
consciousness. It requires a standardized assessment 
and reporting approach to assure reliability, accurate 
patient status communication between healthcare 
providers, and recording of changes over time.
 
• Assess and report each of the three GCS components 
(eye, verbal, and motor) for individual patients. Use 
GCS sum scores (e.g., 3–15) for patient group-level 
comparisons and injury classification.
 
• The pupillary light response provides diagnostic and 
prognostic information in patients with TBI.
 
• Quantitative pupillometry is a useful tool that provides 
more reliable and reproducible measurements than 
standard clinical assessment of pupillary reactivity.
Basic assessment of a patient with TBI in the ED and 
hospital is essential to prioritize diagnostic and therapeutic 
interventions and to allow appropriate detection of changes 
in the patient’s clinical condition. This assessment may 
prompt repeat CT, therapeutic interventions, and other 
strategies to lessen secondary brain injury. 
In the ED, initial assessment follows the principles of the 
Advanced Trauma Life Support® (ATLS®) program and 
includes a brief evaluation of level of consciousness (via 
GCS), pupillary reactivity, and signs of lateralization.1 
Dependent on treatment priorities, a more extensive 
neurologic examination follows, with an additional focus 
on the presence of scalp lacerations, signs of penetrating 
injury, and clinical signs of basilar or depressed skull 
fractures. Throughout the subsequent clinical course, the 
level of consciousness is monitored, with the GCS and 
pupillary reactivity as the main pillars of basic clinical 
neuromonitoring. Clinical neuromonitoring with repeat 
CT scanning is the main component of the Consensus-
Revised Imaging and Clinical Examination (CREVICE) 
protocol, which is advocated for in settings in which more 
advanced neuromonitoring—including intracranial pressure 
(ICP) monitoring—is not available.2 The vulnerability of 
the injured brain to physiological insults makes continued 
assessment and optimization of blood pressure and gas 
exchange critical, in addition to neurological monitoring. 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY