Source: Page 44 (RIGHT)
Page: 44, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 334
--------------------------------------------------
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
44
Anesthesia considerations: Assure careful monitoring 
during anesthesia to avoid hypotension, hypoxia, and hypo- 
or hypercarbia. A single episode of hypotension doubles 
mortality.4 When ICP is being monitored, maintain CPP at  
60 mm Hg.5 Because of the adverse effects of inhalational 
anesthesia on ICP, intravenous (IV) anesthesia is often 
preferable. While neuraxial regional anesthetic techniques 
(spinal and epidural anesthesia) are contraindicated in 
patients with intracranial hypertension, a role may exist for 
peripheral nerve blocks (whether single shot or continuous) 
to provide analgesia and facilitate surgery. 
Timing of surgical procedures: Damage control 
orthopaedics—early external fixation after initial 
stabilization, with delayed definitive treatment—aims 
to minimize the risk of the so-called neurologic “second 
hit” that may occur in conjunction with early orthopaedic 
interventions (early total care).10–12 The concept of safe 
definitive surgery was recently introduced to strike a balance 
between the extremes of early total care and damage 
control orthopaedics.13 The timing of surgery is optimized 
through repeated patient assessment, with attention to 
changing physiology and clinical status (classified as stable, 
borderline, unstable, or in extremis). 
The timing of orthopaedic procedures (primarily long-
bone repair) does not appear to have an overall effect on 
outcomes in patients with severe TBI, with the following 
provisions.6–9 In patients with intracranial hypertension, 
give consideration to delaying trips to the operating room 
unless lifesaving procedures are required. Perform open 
laparotomy or open thoracotomy when needed, with 
adherence to the same general principles of avoiding 
secondary brain injury. Laparoscopy is generally avoided, 
especially early on, because it raises intra-abdominal 
pressure and induces hypercarbia.14,15 The contribution of 
hypercarbia to long-term adverse neurologic outcomes is 
debatable, however. The majority of facial fractures are not 
life-threatening and do not require emergent intervention; 
however, such patients may be vulnerable to respiratory 
distress. Routine ICU procedures (e.g., tracheostomy and 
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy) may be performed 
once the patient’s condition has stabilized. The timing of 
spine fracture-dislocation surgery may depend on spine 
stability and the need for emergency spinal decompression 
in patients with spinal cord injury.