Source: Page 15 (LEFT)
Page: 15, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 318
--------------------------------------------------
BLOOD-BASED BIOMARKERS
KEY POINTS
 
• Brain injury biomarkers such as glial fibrillary acidic 
protein (GFAP), ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 
(UCH-L1), and S100 calcium-binding protein (S100B) 
can be used to rule out the need for brain CT imaging 
for patients with suspected TBI who meet the following 
criteria: 
 
– GCS of 13–15 
 
– Clinical criteria for brain CT imaging based on brain 
CT imaging decision rules 
 
– The clinician assesses a low but nonzero risk for 
traumatic ICH
 
• The extent of GFAP, UCH-L1, and S100B elevation on 
the day of injury provides clinicians with an estimate 
of the underlying structural brain injury severity. These 
blood levels are also useful as adjuncts for predicting 
functional recovery at 6 months postinjury in patients 
with GCS 3–12 associated with TBI.
Characterizing and quantifying the severity of structural 
brain injury in acute TBI is critically important to inform 
treatment strategies and guide discussions about the 
patient’s expected prognosis. Until recently, the primary 
diagnostic resource for characterizing the severity of 
structural brain injury in acute TBI was the non-contrast 
brain CT scan. Brain CT is excellent for visualizing vascular 
structure injury, brain tissue edema, and the effect of 
injury on brain tissue deformation. Thus, the acute brain 
CT scan is key to identifying TBI patients requiring surgical 
management. However, the brain CT is limited in its ability 
to quantify injury to neurons and glial cells. As a result, a 
significant proportion of patients with a negative brain CT 
have persistent and debilitating neurologic and psychiatric 
symptoms that may persist for prolonged periods. 
Additionally, the diagnostic yield of brain CT scans is low. 
In the US, approximately 90% of the brain CTs performed 
each year during the acute evaluation for TBI are negative.1 
These patients are exposed to avoidable ionizing radiation, 
and the healthcare system absorbs increased cost and 
prolonged ED length of stay (LOS). 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY