Source: Page 23 (RIGHT)
Page: 23, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 330
--------------------------------------------------
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
23
Older Adult Considerations
Despite recommendations for ICP monitoring in patients 
with severe TBI, the above recommendations may not 
always be applicable to older adults. Older adult patients 
have cerebral atrophy and may generally be at lower 
risk of intracranial hypertension. A few studies have 
specifically investigated the use of ICP monitoring in older 
adult patients with TBI. ICP monitoring rates in older 
adult patients range from 5% to 44%, depending on the 
population studied.7,8 Some observational studies on severe 
TBI reported lower mortality in patients older than 65 years 
who received ICP monitoring, while other studies concluded 
that ICP monitoring was associated with an unfavorable 
outcome (severe disability, vegetative, or death) in older 
adult patients.9-13 In a recent large observational study, the 
overall utilization of ICP monitoring in older adults meeting 
the Brain Trauma Foundation (BTF) criteria remained 
low across high-volume trauma centers. A mortality or 
functional benefit to ICP monitoring in older adults remains 
to be elucidated.14 
Pediatric Considerations
Pediatric consensus guidelines based on aggregate 
retrospective data suggest utility in monitoring ICP in 
children with severe TBI. Although limited pediatric studies 
report no improvement in functional survival or even 
showed increased morbidity and mortality, these studies 
were unable to control for critical differences between 
the groups with and without ICP monitoring. Recent 
retrospective data suggest that, compared to an EVD, an 
intraparenchymal pressure transducer may achieve similar 
long-term outcome measures. However, the therapeutic 
benefit of an EVD may contribute to slightly lower ICP 
during acute management.15 These data suggest that 
the choice of ICP monitoring technique should include 
consideration of the different risks and relative advantages 
of the two techniques relevant to the clinical scenario, such 
as age and other factors.
Normal CBF has age-dependent variability related to 
metabolic changes during different stages of brain 
development. Depending on the child’s age, this variability 
affects the relationship between cerebrovascular 
autoregulation, ICP, SBP, and CPP. Age-appropriate MAP, 
and therefore CPP, is lower in children than in adults. A