Source: Page 25 (LEFT)
Page: 25, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 268
--------------------------------------------------
TIERED MANAGEMENT OF 
INTRACRANIAL PRESSURE
KEY POINTS
 
• ICP elevation is a key measurable secondary insult that 
providers must treat to prevent secondary brain damage 
following severe TBI.
 
• Rigorous, consensus-based algorithms, such as those 
from the Seattle International Severe Traumatic Brain 
Injury Consensus Conference (SIBICC), augment 
evidence-based guidelines by addressing gaps between 
the available evidence and necessities of patient care. 
 
• The SIBICC algorithms employ a three-tiered approach 
to therapy in which interventions with more favorable 
risk-benefit ratios generally are used before interventions 
with less favorable ratios. The tiered approach retains 
medical decision-making within tiers and supports 
targeting interventions at specific physiological 
disruptions, where suspected.
 
• Although derived through a rigorous, consensus-
based process, view the SIBICC algorithms as 
recommendations that offer the benefits inherent to care 
standardization. Do not consider the SIBICC algorithms 
as standards of practice. Optimally, these algorithms are 
reviewed by all relevant disciplines at a trauma center 
and approved or adapted for the local environment.
Without treatment, ICP elevation may rapidly become 
fatal, either because of transtentorial brain herniation and 
brainstem compression or due to critical CPP reduction 
leading to brain ischemia. In extreme situations, brain 
death ensues when elevated ICP prevents brain perfusion. 
Because of their accuracy, invasive monitors are currently 
preferred for the management of intracranial hypertension.
 
• ICP measurement can detect an expanding intracranial 
lesion and facilitate targeted treatment of intracranial 
hypertension. 
 
• It allows computation of CPP and calculation of 
cerebrovascular autoregulatory status. 
 
• The morphology of the ICP waveform can also provide 
input into cerebral compliance and compensatory 
reserve.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY