Source: Page 40 (LEFT)
Page: 40, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 309
--------------------------------------------------
AIRWAY AND VENTILATION
KEY POINTS
 
• Early endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation 
are recommended in patients with TBI and reduced 
consciousness (i.e., GCS < 9), severe agitation, loss of 
airway protective reflexes, or a GCS > 8 in the presence 
of thoracic and abdominal injuries.
 
• Prescribe ventilator settings to assure that arterial 
pH remains 7.35–7.45, PaCO2 is 35–45 mm Hg (in the 
absence of intracranial hypertension and/or severe 
metabolic acidosis), and oxygen saturation is at least 
94%. 
 
• Tracheal extubation can be challenging in neurocritical 
care patients. Consider extubation when intracranial 
hypertension is resolved, no evolving lesions were 
documented on the last CT scan, and the patient is able 
to control upper airway reflexes and cough. 
Intubation and Ventilation Management 
Early intubation and mechanical ventilation are 
cornerstones of TBI management in patients with reduced 
consciousness (i.e., a GCS < 9), severe agitation, and loss 
of airway protective reflexes. The aim is to avoid hypoxia, 
control carbon dioxide levels, and minimize the risk of 
aspiration. During tracheal intubation, protect the cervical 
spine due to possible associated spinal injuries. Once 
intubated, ventilate with goals to maintain arterial pH 7.35–
7.45, PaCO2 35–40 mm Hg (in the absence of intracranial 
hypertension and/or severe metabolic acidosis), and oxygen 
saturation at least 94%. 
 
• The optimal target range of PaO2 is 80–100 mm Hg. This 
could be higher if neuromonitoring (e.g., brain tissue 
oxygen targeted approaches) suggests it. 
 
• The optimal target range of PaCO2 is 35–45 mm Hg in 
patients who do not have elevated ICP. 
Mild hyperventilation (PaCO2 of 32–35 mm Hg) is 
suggested as a SIBICC Tier-Two treatment for controlling 
high ICP or during neurologic worsening (uncal herniation).1 
In the presence of refractory severe intracranial 
hypertension, or when a threatened or actual herniation 
is detected (e.g., a dilated unreactive pupil), reduction 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY