Source: Page 83 (LEFT)
Page: 83, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 298
--------------------------------------------------
IMPLEMENTATION AND INTEGRATION OF THE BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES
GAP ANALYSIS AND EDUCATION PLAN
KEY POINTS
 
• These best practices recommendations, based upon 
evidence and expert opinion, are intended as guidance to 
trauma centers for the care of patients with TBI. 
 
• The trauma medical director (TMD), trauma program 
manager (TPM), trauma liaisons, registrars, and staff 
have a leadership role in implementing the ACS TQP 
Best Practices Guidelines for the Management of Traumatic 
Brain Injury, supporting care of patients with TBI, and 
monitoring guideline compliance.
 
• A stakeholder workgroup, receiving its directives 
from the TMD and the trauma operations committee, 
implements the best practices recommendations. 
 
• The workgroup reviews the best practices 
recommendations and completes a gap analysis related 
to the trauma center’s current TBI care. 
Implementing recommended best practices in the trauma 
center begins with the TMD, TPM, trauma liaisons, and 
registrars as leaders and change agents. These individuals 
are responsible for the oversight, management, and 
continuous commitment to improving care within the 
trauma center and the trauma system, regardless of trauma 
center designation level. These leaders define the leadership 
structure, culture, and implementation processes for the 
BPG that foster stakeholder engagement. This process 
includes the following: 
 
• The brain injury guidelines interdisciplinary workgroup, 
with a defined leader and reporting structure, is charged 
with reviewing the TBI BPG and determining the need to 
complete a gap analysis that compares current trauma 
center practices to the recommendations in the ACS TQP 
Best Practices Guidelines for the Management of Traumatic 
Brain Injury.
 
• An educational plan is developed for the implementation 
of the trauma center’s TBI management guidelines and 
for sustaining the new practices.
 
• Documentation is integrated into the electronic medical 
record to facilitate reporting consistency and to track 
outcomes. 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY