Source: Page 23 (LEFT)
Page: 23, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 391
--------------------------------------------------
A South American randomized controlled trial (RCT) 
compared patient treatment using ICP monitoring to 
maintain ICP ≤ 20 mm Hg to patient treatment based 
upon imaging and neurological examination.3 Although 
no difference in outcomes was found between the 
study groups, the result did not support discontinuation 
of ICP monitoring in the treatment of TBI. Rather, it 
demonstrated the importance of aggressive treatment 
using ICP monitoring or, alternatively, frequent clinical 
and radiographic examination to identify intracranial 
hypertension.4 The findings of this study also challenge 
the currently accepted rigid ICP alert threshold used for 
all patients. The currently accepted alert threshold is an 
ICP of 22 mm Hg, with a reasonable range of 20–25 mm 
Hg for more than 5 minutes, as a trigger for treatment 
of intracranial hypertension; however, ongoing research 
suggests that this threshold is dependent upon individual 
patient factors such as injury type and severity. The ICP 
“dose,” reflecting both the magnitude and time of exposure 
to intracranial hypertension, might be more important 
than a fixed ICP treatment threshold. Higher ICP dose is 
associated with worse outcomes over the entire Glasgow 
Outcome Scale (GOS) range, not only mortality.5 
Escalation of treatment for intracranial hypertension needs 
to be based on both the level and duration of ICP elevation. 
For example, the threshold for proceeding to higher-tier 
therapies such as decompressive craniectomy needs to be 
at a higher ICP threshold, or “dose,” as demonstrated by the 
RESCUE-ICP trial.6 A trend over time is more relevant than 
a momentary ICP value. Differentiate a gradual rise of ICP 
from short-term elevations due to events such as ventilator 
dyssynchrony or plateau waves. Interpret measured values 
of ICP in relation to arterial blood pressure, CPP, and 
autoregulatory responses (see the Neuromonitoring section 
on page 29). A clinical approach based on injury type and 
augmented by advanced neuromonitoring may lead to 
individualized treatment pathways. 
The gold standard for ICP measurement is an EVD attached 
to an external strain-gauge transducer. The monitor, 
centrally placed within the cerebral ventricles, can measure 
global ICP, and it offers the therapeutic advantage of 
draining cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to reduce intracranial 
volume. Intraparenchymal ICP monitoring is also a reliable 
method, but it does not allow for CSF drainage. Subdural 
and epidural monitors have been used, but these are not 
recommended due to lower accuracy.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY