Source: Page 8 (RIGHT)
Page: 8, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 334
--------------------------------------------------
ASSESSMENT
8
Assessing the Level of Consciousness: GCS 
and Other Tools
The GCS is an internationally recognized tool with 
demonstrated reliability to assess the level of consciousness 
across all brain injury severity levels.1,3,4 The GCS scores 
patient responses in three domains: eye, verbal, and motor. 
For preverbal children (0–2 years), the pediatric GCS 
demonstrates greater reliability.3,5,6 See Table 1 for GCS 
tools. In older adults, the verbal component of the GCS may 
be confounded by preexisting conditions such as delirium, 
dementia, and aphasia. The component that is most 
associated with long-term outcomes is the motor score.
The GCS can be used during all phases of patient care. 
Adopt a standardized approach for both assessment and 
reporting to ensure reliable patient assessment over time 
and for accurate communication between healthcare 
professionals. Complete a baseline assessment as soon as 
possible, after imminent threats to life are managed. 
When used in individual patients, assess and document 
each of the GCS component scores (e.g., Eye 4, Verbal 
4, Motor 6). Each GCS component score provides 
complementary information with differential relevance 
across injury severities.7 The eye and verbal component 
scores are more discriminating in patients with less severe 
brain injuries. For the assessment of more severe brain 
injuries, the motor score is more relevant. Use this sequence 
when assessing the GCS: 
 
• Observe and record spontaneous patient activities and 
responses prior to the application of any stimulus. 
 
• Provide verbal stimuli while observing for eye opening, 
verbal, or upper extremity motor responses. Note: 
Document only the reactions of the best arm, not the 
legs. 
 
• Use another stimulus to elicit a response (e.g., fingertip 
pressure, supra-orbital pressure, trapezius pinch) if the 
patient has no response to verbal stimuli. Document 
the type of stimulus applied (i.e., central or peripheral), 
and then use this stimulus as a standard for future 
assessments.
The individual component scores of the GCS may be 
summed to provide a useful measure for overall injury 
classification, prognosis estimation (in conjunction with 
other factors), and patient group-level comparisons.