Source: Page 73 (RIGHT)
Page: 73, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 350
--------------------------------------------------
POSTACUTE CARE
Detection and Diagnosis 
The acute management of patients with TBI and GCS 13–15 
presents several challenges. Most notably, establishing the 
diagnosis in the ED relies heavily on the subjective report of 
the patient’s signs and symptoms. However, patient history 
and symptom reporting in the ED are often unreliable due to 
impairment and can be impacted by numerous factors other 
than head injury, such as the following:
 
• Confounding drug or alcohol intoxication 
 
• Co-occurring orthopaedic injury 
 
• Pain management treatment 
 
• Inherent uncertainties in gathering accurate injury 
history, symptomatology, or mechanism8 
Great variability can be found in impairment severity, even 
within the continuum of GCS 13–15 (e.g., a GCS 15 patient 
with normal neuroimaging and only subtle deficit vs. a GCS 
13 patient with extensive pathology on imaging and more 
severe impairments). The high-volume, high-throughput 
setting of a hospital ED with primary focus on emergency 
conditions may not allow for extensive clinical testing (e.g., 
neurologic or neuropsychological testing) beyond physical 
examination and head CT to assist in the diagnosis of TBI 
patients with GCS 13–15. These challenges contribute, in 
part, to the fact that an estimated 50% of patients with 
TBI and GCS 13–15 go undetected and undiagnosed in the 
hospital ED each year.9–11 
Acute Management 
In the acute ED setting, the immediate priority when 
treating suspected brain trauma, including patients with 
TBI and GCS 13–15, is identifying those patients at risk for 
deterioration and potentially in need of urgent neurosurgical 
intervention. Most patients with TBI and GCS 13–15 have 
no traumatic intracranial lesions on head CT. However, 
higher rates of CT abnormalities are reported in patients 
treated at Level 1 trauma centers and in patients with lower 
GCS scores.12 Regardless, head CT remains the standard for 
identifying ICH in patients with TBI and GCS 13–15. Clinical 
decision rules exist regarding use of CT imaging for at-risk 
patients with TBI to reduce the number of unnecessary 
CT studies performed. Please refer to the Blood-Based 
Biomarkers section on page 15 regarding the use of 
neuroimaging and blood-based biomarker testing in the 
evaluation of patients with TBI and GCS 13–15.