Source: Page 37 (RIGHT)
Page: 37, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 289
--------------------------------------------------
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
37
associated with reduced pneumonia and hospital LOS. 
Early EN is most commonly defined as within 24 to 72 
hours of injury. This timing of early EN is recommended in 
conjunction with the BTF recommendation of achieving full 
nutritional support within 7 days of injury.15 The American 
Society for Enteral and Parenteral Nutrition makes similar 
recommendations.16,17 
High-protein EN formulations are preferred to better meet 
protein targets following TBI. Immune-enhancing enteral 
formulations may reduce infectious complications and 
improve nutritional parameters in patients with TBI.18 Fish 
oil was shown to reduce inflammatory stress and cellular 
damage in murine models and small human trials.19–21 
Consider using fish-oil fortified EN formulas unless 
contraindications exist. 
Feeding Methods
Studies specific to patients with TBI demonstrate significant 
reduction in rates of pneumonia with postpyloric feeding 
tube placement. However, the level of feeding did not 
impact other outcomes.22 The potential benefits of 
postpyloric feeding must be weighed against the benefits of 
early EN initiation; avoid delayed initiation of EN in pursuit 
of postpyloric access.
Consider PN when an absolute contraindication for EN 
exists and is anticipated to delay initiation of EN support.16 
However, EN is more cost-effective and physiologically 
correct and is therefore the first-line nutrition support 
therapy. If EN is contraindicated, initiation of PN support 
within 72 hours postinjury is recommended.
Glycemic Control
Glycemic targets for adults who are critically ill range from 
100 to 180 mg/dL in published guidelines. Hypo- and 
hyperglycemia are associated with worsened outcomes in 
observational studies of patients with TBI.23,24 
Older Adult Considerations
Older adult patients with TBI are at increased risk for 
nutrition-related sequelae. Rates of malnutrition (protein-
energy deficit or undernutrition) can be as high as 62% at 
admission, and it is associated with higher morbidity (e.g.,