Source: Page 20 (RIGHT)
Page: 20, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 318
--------------------------------------------------
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
20
An ICP of 22 mm Hg is a useful initial threshold for 
treatment. However, when the risk/benefit of advancing 
treatment becomes a concern, such as for therapy with 
significant hazards (e.g., decompressive craniectomy), 
consider a treatment range of 20–25 mm Hg. A CPP of ≥ 60 
mm Hg is a practical target, adjusted as needed, based on 
cerebral autoregulation status. A PbtO2 value of ≥ 15 mm Hg 
is recommended, if monitored.
Initial oxygenation targets include SpO2 ≥ 94% and PaO2 
of 80–100 mm Hg. Given concerns about the hazards of 
hyperoxia, avoid PaO2 > 100 mm Hg, unless guided by brain 
oximetry. PaCO2 of 35–45 mm Hg and pH of 7.35–7.45 are 
recommended initial targets in the absence of intracranial 
hypertension. Patients with significant pulmonary 
issues (e.g., acute respiratory distress syndrome) 
may require lung-specific targets, such as permissive 
hypercapnia, based on their clinical condition while 
controlling ICP elevation using other interventions.
Vital Signs
Closely monitor systolic blood pressure (SBP) and mean 
arterial pressure (MAP) to avoid hypotension. Providing 
treatment targeting SBP ≥ 110 mm Hg/MAP > 80 mm Hg 
will allow adequate cerebral perfusion in most cases when 
ICP is not being monitored.1 While no clear cutoff exists 
for blood pressure, the probability of mortality increases 
linearly with every 10-point drop of SBP below 119 mm Hg 
in patients with TBI, suggesting that higher targets may be 
indicated than previously recognized.2
The target for temperature management is maintenance of 
normothermia (36–37.9°C). Treat fever aggressively.
Electrolyte Management
Electrolyte management is essential, with specific 
emphasis on maintaining sodium levels within the range 
of 135–145 mEq/L. Preventing hyponatremia is critical to 
avoid exacerbation of cerebral edema. Frequent monitoring 
of serum sodium levels may be necessary, because TBI 
patients can develop conditions such as diabetes insipidus 
or the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone /
cerebral salt wasting syndrome. Measure osmolality when 
mannitol is used as an osmotic agent.