Source: Page 51 (LEFT)
Page: 51, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 358
--------------------------------------------------
Current evidence supports early initiation of pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis in TBI patients. In the last decade, multiple 
studies and two systematic reviews have suggested that, 
in patients with ICH stability reported on follow-up CT 
scan and regardless of TBI severity, initiation of earlier 
prophylaxis is associated with reduced VTE rates without 
clinically significant ICH progression.6,9–14 Patients with 
progression of ICH prior to receiving prophylaxis and 
those undergoing cranial surgery, however, may behave 
differently and warrant additional observation prior to 
initiation of prophylaxis.4,15 While use of pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis in TBI patients continues to be an area 
of evolving investigation, a reassessment of the available 
evidence and expert consensus prompted these updated 
recommendations. 
In patients with nonoperative TBI patterns, repeating 
head CT imaging within 24 hours after the initial CT is 
recommended to assess ICH stability prior to starting 
pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis. The possible exception is 
patients with minimal hemorrhage on initial CT who may 
not warrant repeat imaging. In hospitalized patients with 
low risk of ICH (as described in Table 6), consider starting 
pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis within 24 hours if ICH is 
stable on repeat CT. In patients with moderate/high risk 
for ICH progression, consider starting pharmacologic VTE 
prophylaxis in 24 to 48 hours if ICH is stable on repeat CT.
Patients with an ICP monitor (intraparenchymal or EVD) 
but without craniotomy/craniectomy may be considered 
for pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis in the same manner 
as patients with nonoperative TBI described above. 
Withholding pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis prior to ICP 
monitor placement or while the monitor is in place is not 
recommended. Consider continuing pharmacologic VTE 
prophylaxis without holding doses prior to removal of the 
ICP monitor. Another option is to coordinate the timing of 
monitor insertion/removal after one half-life of the drug 
has passed. In patients who have undergone craniotomy/
craniectomy, consider initiating or resuming pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis in 24 to 48 hours after surgery if ICH 
is stable on postoperative CT. For patients with CT 
evidence of ICH progression, withholding pharmacologic 
VTE prophylaxis is recommended until ICH stability is 
demonstrated on repeat imaging, usually in another 24 to 
48 hours.14,15 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY