Source: Page 62 (LEFT)
Page: 62, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 315
--------------------------------------------------
PROGNOSTIC ASSESSMENT AND 
FAMILY COMMUNICATION
KEY POINTS
 
• Functionally meaningful recovery (i.e., return to 
independence) may be possible even if consciousness is 
absent in the first 4 or more weeks and even in patients 
with a depressed mental status in the initial weeks 
following TBI. 
 
• Shared decision-making and acknowledgement 
of prognostic uncertainty are recommended 
communication approaches with families or surrogates. 
 
• Early withdrawal of life-sustaining therapies may lead to 
a self-fulfilling prophecy of poor outcome.
 
• Provide aggressive treatment to patients with severe TBI, 
including necessary surgical procedures, until the clinical 
team and the family or surrogate agree that further 
treatment of this type would not be aligned with the 
patient’s values and preferences. 
 
• A best practice is for each trauma center to develop a 
brain death determination policy derived from accepted 
standards and in alignment with local laws and policies.
Prognostic Assessment
Patients with severe TBI are at high risk for death and long-
term disability. No current prognostic indicators are precise 
enough to predict poor outcome (e.g., death, permanent 
unconsciousness, permanent loss of independence) with 
high certainty, especially not in the initial weeks postinjury. 
It is notable that functional outcomes acceptable to the 
patient and/or family can occur in up to 20% of patients 
who do not regain consciousness in the first 4 weeks 
after injury.1 Statistical models including factors available 
at the time of initial evaluation (e.g., age, neurological 
function including GCS score and/or pupillary reactivity, 
and neuroimaging findings) were developed and validated 
on large populations of patients with moderate to severe 
TBI. These models provide some general guidance about 
predicted outcome. The IMPACT and CRASH TBI statistical 
models are the most extensively validated and can produce 
point estimates with CI.2,3 Using these outcome models 
for exact prognostication on individual patients is not 
recommended. However, clinicians can use these models to 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY