Source: Page 22 (LEFT)
Page: 22, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 294
--------------------------------------------------
INTRACRANIAL PRESSURE 
MONITORING
KEY POINTS
 
• ICP monitoring is important, but it does not replace 
careful serial neurological and radiographic examination 
of the patient with TBI. 
 
• ICP monitoring is recommended in comatose patients 
(GCS ≤ 8) when evidence of structural brain damage is 
seen on initial CT imaging. 
 
• The gold standard for ICP measurement is an external 
ventricular drain (EVD) attached to an external strain-
gauge transducer, as this has both diagnostic and 
therapeutic value. An intraparenchymal transducer can 
also be used to monitor ICP.
 
• For pediatric patients, ICP monitoring by an EVD or 
an intraparenchymal transducer may result in similar 
clinical outcomes. Technical reasons to choose an 
intraparenchymal transducer may exist in specific cases, 
although an EVD may facilitate a lower ICP.
 
• For pediatric patients, the ICP target (the normal range 
of ICP, as a contributor to CPP) is lower than in adults. 
An upper limit of 20 mm Hg is recommended for 
children based on retrospective evidence, as outcomes 
were not improved by other limits.
Persistently elevated ICP is predictive of poor outcome. 
ICP monitoring is important because CPP, an important 
marker of cerebral blood flow (CBF), is derived from 
ICP (MAP – ICP = CPP). Augmenting the CPP can help 
restore cerebral perfusion and oxygen delivery. ICP 
monitoring can also provide warning of impending 
structural brain derangements (e.g., contusion/hematoma 
progression, increased cerebral edema, and postoperative 
complications). 
ICP monitoring is recommended in comatose patients (GCS 
≤ 8) if evidence of structural brain damage is seen on initial 
CT imaging. ICP monitoring should be carefully considered 
for other patients:
 
• Patients with a GCS > 8 who have structural brain 
damage and high risk for progression (e.g., large/
multiple contusions)
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY