Source: Page 22 (RIGHT)
Page: 22, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 318
--------------------------------------------------
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
22
 
• Patients with a GCS > 8 when knowing the ICP might 
facilitate management of other issues (e.g., allowing 
earlier surgery for orthopaedic injuries or application of 
treatments that can potentially increase ICP like prone 
positioning for acute respiratory failure)
 
• Patients with evidence of pathology progression on CT 
imaging or clinical deterioration
 
• Patients who require urgent surgery for extracranial 
injuries or sedation to facilitate mechanical ventilation 
because of airway compromise or respiratory failure. 
ICP monitoring is generally not indicated in comatose 
patients without evidence of structural brain damage or 
of elevated ICP on initial CT imaging (e.g., compressed or 
absent basal cisterns). These patients may continue to be 
observed without ICP monitoring by neurological exams and 
serial CT imaging.
ICP Monitoring Role in Patient 
Management
Identification of elevated ICP can prompt further imaging, 
pharmacologic intervention, and definitive operative 
management. Knowing that ICP elevation is absent can 
also allow for de-escalation of care (e.g., early surgery for 
extracranial injuries, decreasing sedation, extubation, etc.). 
When instituted, it is important to continue ICP monitoring 
for patients transported out of the ICU for extracranial 
surgery, imaging, or special procedures.
ICP monitoring remains a critical component in the 
management of severe TBI. However, studies highlight the 
need to better define how ICP monitoring is used in the 
treatment of TBI. In the largest study of ICP monitoring to 
date, observational data from hospitals participating in the 
ACS TQIP demonstrated that use of ICP monitoring was 
associated with lower in-hospital mortality.1 Worldwide, 
the use of ICP monitoring and management varies greatly 
across hospitals and countries. A large, international, 
prospective observational cohort study of ICP monitoring 
(SYNAPSE-ICU) demonstrated that ICP monitoring is 
associated with a more intensive therapeutic approach 
and with lower 6-month mortality in more severe cases.2 
Intracranial hypertension treatment guided by monitoring 
might be considered in severe TBI due to the potential 
associated improvement in long-term clinical results.