Source: Page 10 (LEFT)
Page: 10, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 337
--------------------------------------------------
It includes the eye and motor components of the GCS, 
as well as brainstem reflexes and respiration. The verbal 
component of the GCS was omitted because intubation and 
ventilation make it untestable. Among pediatric patients, 
the FOUR score displays good inter-rater reliability among 
physicians and nurses.8 The FOUR score provides greater 
neurologic detail than the GCS in patients with more severe 
impairments of consciousness, and it is applicable in 
patients with locked-in syndrome.8 The GCS is applicable 
across patients of all injury severities and remains the 
preferred tool for general use to assess and monitor level of 
consciousness in the ICU.
Pupillary Reactivity and Pupillometry
The pupillary light response is an important element of 
the neurologic exam because it provides useful diagnostic 
and prognostic information. Some degree of pupillary 
asymmetry may be normal, but the development of new 
pupillary asymmetry can indicate compression of the 
brainstem with impending uncal herniation, triggering 
the need for further evaluation and intervention. In uncal 
herniation, the parasympathetic fibers on the surface of 
the third cranial nerve are compressed, leading to a slowly 
reactive—or eventually unreactive—pupil. A unilateral 
unreactive pupil is consistent with an ipsilateral mass lesion, 
while bilaterally fixed and dilated pupils portend a poor 
overall prognosis for functional recovery. 
Older Adults: In older adults, evaluation of the pupillary 
response may be confounded by preexisting chronic 
ophthalmic diseases (e.g., glaucoma or cataract disease). 
Quantitative pupillometry may be of limited value in 
patients with postsurgical pupils (i.e., after cataract 
surgery), however, this does not influence pupillary light 
reflex parameters measured by automated pupillometry.9,10 
In these patients, a medical history is essential to correctly 
interpret physical examination findings such as an abnormal 
pupillary light reflex, anisocoria, or oculomotor palsy. 
Quantitative Pupillometry: Both the inter-rater and intra-
rater reliability of the standard clinical determination of 
pupillary size and reactivity are relatively poor. Quantitative 
pupillometers provide increased reliability and consistency 
of pupillary measurements.11–13 The quantitative pupillometer 
is a small handheld device that uses both visible and 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY