Source: Page 54 (LEFT)
Page: 54, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 268
--------------------------------------------------
PHARMACOTHERAPY FOR TRAUMATIC 
BRAIN INJURY
KEY POINTS
 
• Patients with TBI at high risk of early posttraumatic 
seizures (PTS) have a lower incidence of PTS when 
receiving phenytoin or levetiracetam, compared to those 
receiving no antiseizure medication (ASM).
 
• Consider the use of ASM prophylaxis for 7 days 
following severe TBI to prevent early PTS if risk factors 
are present; however, its use for more than 7 days to 
prevent late PTS is not recommended. 
 
• Carefully assess patients receiving warfarin or direct-
acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs) and initiate drug-
specific reversal therapy for those requiring emergent 
surgery for life-threatening bleeding.
 
• Consider restarting anticoagulation no later than 14–90 
days after TBI, depending on patient-specific risk for 
thrombosis and bleeding.
 
• Routine platelet transfusion is not recommended 
for use in reversing antiplatelet agent effects. Use 
clinical judgment to determine if patients with TBI 
on antiplatelet agents who are undergoing surgery 
or invasive procedures with low platelet counts need 
platelet transfusions to achieve hemostasis. 
 
• Restart antiplatelet agents as early as 4 days after 
injury, based on assessment of patient-specific risk for 
thrombosis and bleeding.
 
• Beta blockers (e.g., propranolol) may be considered 
for treatment of TBI patients with adrenergic stress or 
paroxysmal hyperactivity syndrome (“storming”), but 
adverse effects must also be considered. 
 
• Administer antibiotic surgical prophylaxis based on 
published guidelines, in conjunction with pharmacist 
consultation and assessment of ICU antibiograms. 
 
• Antibiotic prophylaxis is not recommended for EVD or 
intraparenchymal ICP monitor placement, skull-based 
fractures, CSF leaks, or pneumocephalus, because the 
prophylaxis may promote growth of drug-resistant 
bacteria.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY