Source: Page 15 (RIGHT)
Page: 15, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 366
--------------------------------------------------
ASSESSMENT
15
Biomarkers and Imaging Decisions
Two blood-based protein biomarkers, GFAP and UCH-L1, 
can be measured in patients (18 years or older) with a 
potential TBI to help rule out the need for a brain CT scan.2 
Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
authorized devices for the  rapid measurement of GFAP and 
UCH-L1 for routine clinical use.3,4 These include a point-
of-care device that can analyze blood samples collected 
by venipuncture and deliver test results in as little as 15 
minutes, as well as a lab-based test that offers results in 18 
minutes. Other devices with FDA clearance are expected in 
the near future.
S100B: S100B is a calcium-binding protein primarily found 
in glial cells. It is the most extensively studied brain injury 
biomarker for aiding in decision-making regarding brain 
CT imaging in patients evaluated for TBI. Similar to GFAP 
it is released into circulation following glial cell injury. It 
has excellent diagnostic sensitivity for identifying patients 
likely to have a positive CT, however, given its short half-
life, it is recommended to use this biomarker only when 
blood sampling can be performed within 6 hours of injury.5 
S100B is not FDA-cleared for routine clinical use in the 
US; however, it was incorporated into the Scandinavian 
guidelines for brain CT imaging in 2013. 
The Scandinavian guidelines recommend using S100B 
analysis in adult patients with mild head injury meeting the 
following criteria6:
 
• Less than 6 hours have elapsed following trauma, and
 
• EITHER GCS 14 and no risk factors (such as 
anticoagulant therapy or coagulation disorders, 
posttraumatic seizures, clinical signs of depressed or 
basal skull fracture, and focal neurological deficits) 
 
• OR GCS 15 with LOC or repeated vomiting (≥ 2) and no 
other risk factors.
If S100B is less than 0.10 mcg/L, the patient may be 
discharged without a brain CT.6
GFAP and UCH-L1: GFAP is an intermediate filament 
protein found predominantly in astrocytes, and UCH-L1 is 
an enzyme that neurons express in high abundance. These 
proteins are released into circulation when astrocytes and 
neurons are injured. UCH-L1 is detectable in blood within 
30 minutes of injury, peaks within 8 hours postinjury, and 
then decreases steadily. GFAP is released within 1 hour of