Source: Page 57 (RIGHT)
Page: 57, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 319
--------------------------------------------------
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
57
are also inhibited by these agents until the irreversible 
agents are eliminated from the blood stream, at about 
3–5 times the half-life of the agent.20,38,39 The antiplatelet 
agents that have active metabolites (e.g., clopidogrel and 
ticagrelor) have longer antiplatelet activity. Point-of-care 
platelet function assays are recommended as an adjunct 
to standard laboratory and/or coagulation monitoring in 
patients with suspected platelet dysfunction from preinjury 
antiplatelet therapy. Platelet function tests help identify 
patients who may benefit from reversal therapies and 
decrease the potential risk of thrombosis from unnecessary 
treatment.38-40
Current guidelines suggest that all patients discontinue 
antiplatelet agents in the acute period postinjury. For 
patients who require a neurosurgical procedure, consider 
one single-donor apheresis unit of platelets (equivalent to 
6 pooled units or 1 random-donor unit per 10 kg of body 
weight).20,40 Desmopressin (0.4 mcg/kg IV) was also 
suggested for consideration alone or in addition to a platelet 
transfusion for neurosurgical patients who received aspirin, 
clopidogrel, or ticagrelor. If desmopressin is administered, 
monitor for hyponatremia and treat as needed to achieve 
therapeutic sodium concentrations. Platelet function testing 
prior to transfusion is recommended whenever possible. 
For patients with normal platelet function or documented 
resistance, reversal therapies are not recommended. 
Additional research is needed to confirm benefit of these 
strategies in patients on preinjury antiplatelet therapies. 
Until more data are available, platelet transfusion and 
desmopressin are not recommended for patients with TBI 
who are not candidates for an invasive intervention.
Restarting antiplatelet agents: Consider the reason for 
antiplatelet therapy when determining if and when to 
restart antiplatelet therapy in patients after traumatic ICH. 
Studies support restarting antiplatelet therapy as early as 4 
days postinjury, because most posttraumatic hemorrhages 
occur within 3 days.41 Risks for acute and delayed ICH after 
restarting antiplatelet agents must be weighed against 
the morbidity of thrombotic complications that can have 
significant clinical consequences. Individual assessment of 
risk versus benefit must be made for restarting antiplatelet 
therapy.