Source: Page 65 (LEFT)
Page: 65, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 265
--------------------------------------------------
EARLY MULTIDISCIPLINARY 
REHABILITATION IN ACUTE 
TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
KEY POINTS
 
• Consider early multidisciplinary rehabilitation 
interventions on the day of admission, during the initial 
plan of care, and in conjunction with additional acute 
care decisions.
 
• Early multidisciplinary rehabilitation is safe, feasible, 
and cost-effective for patients with TBI who have not 
yet achieved medical stability and/or continue to require 
mechanical ventilation. It can mitigate complications of 
immobility, critical illness, delirium, and cognitive and 
psychological disorders.
 
• Include physical medicine and rehabilitation (PM&R) 
providers on the primary trauma team to enable follow-
up from day of admission.
 
• Include rehabilitation providers from the specialties 
of physical therapy (PT), occupational therapy (OT), 
speech language pathology (SLP), psychology/
neuropsychology, social work, and nursing.
 
• Refer the patient to specialized postacute rehabilitation 
when medically stabile and cleared for discharge from 
acute care.
 
• Patients with GCS 13–15 and prolonged physical, 
cognitive, and psychological complaints/symptoms need 
follow-up and referral to multidisciplinary rehabilitation.
Individuals sustaining TBI often experience complex 
neurological, medical, and polytrauma conditions requiring 
specialized and coordinated trauma team management. 
Promoting a positive recovery trajectory after TBI requires 
intentional and consistent collaboration between trauma 
and rehabilitation experts. The range of TBI severity can 
manifest as a spectrum of disturbed consciousness, 
physical limitations, and deficits in cognition, emotions, 
behavior, and function. Patients with TBI and a GCS of 13–15 
can experience acute or prolonged physical, cognitive, 
and neuropsychological symptoms. These symptoms can 
significantly impede daily function and impair participation 
in school and work activities if appropriate treatment and 
follow-up do not occur. 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY