Source: Page 77 (RIGHT)
Page: 77, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 318
--------------------------------------------------
POSTACUTE CARE
scope of function changes across domains, identification 
of recovery trends over time, and determination of 
interventions needed to maximize good outcomes. 
It is recommended that healthcare professionals caring for 
patients with TBI be aware of different outcome assessment 
measures and their related strengths, limitations, and 
applicability. Care teams must be adept at interpreting 
the results of outcome assessments and intervening 
when needed. For example, place specific emphasis on 
monitoring for clinical decline given the relationship 
between TBI, medical, and psychiatric comorbidities (e.g., 
posttraumatic hydrocephalus, occult seizure, endocrine 
dysfunction, iatrogenic sedation, major depressive disorder, 
posttraumatic stress disorder, and neurodegenerative-
spectrum conditions).3–6 
Assessment methods have different strengths and 
weaknesses, and few can be applied across the full 
spectrum of TBI severity. A comprehensive brain injury 
outcome assessment needs to address physical, cognitive, 
communication, behavioral, psychological, and quality 
of life domains. The GOS-E is widely adopted for global 
assessment of function and outcome after TBI. Healthcare 
professionals administering and interpreting the GOS-E 
need to be familiar with its limitations (e.g., floor and ceiling 
effects and the broad range of function represented within 
discrete categories).7 Additionally, the different approaches 
to scoring (i.e., TBI-specific vs. TBI plus peripheral injuries) 
can lead to different ratings.7 Global functional outcome 
measures do not have the precision needed to characterize 
the heterogeneity of TBI sequelae. When possible, 
complement global assessment with a multidimensional 
assessment strategy that addresses additional domains of 
function to provide a more sensitive and comprehensive 
approach to TBI care.8
Meaningful outcome assessment requires multiple 
assessment periods to discern the individual’s status and 
recovery path. At a minimum, TBI patients of all severity 
need a serial standardized outcome assessment consisting 
of GOS-E administration, ideally between 1 and 3 months 
and again between 6 and 12 months following injury. 
The GOS-E is not appropriate for use during the index 
hospitalization. This recommendation is based on evidence 
that supports longitudinal monitoring for patients with TBI