Source: Page 44 (LEFT)
Page: 44, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 266
--------------------------------------------------
TIMING OF EXTRACRANIAL 
PROCEDURES
KEY POINTS
 
• Balance the urgency of operation against the risks posed 
by intracranial hypertension when making the decision 
to undertake surgery for extracranial injuries.
 
• Delay extracranial surgery in patients with or at high risk 
for intracranial hypertension, except in the context of 
lifesaving procedures.
 
• When the patient’s ICP is monitored and well-controlled 
or where raised ICP is not a concern, clinicians may 
proceed with necessary orthopaedic stabilization 
and other time-sensitive surgery within 48 hours of 
admission.
 
• Avoid laparoscopic procedures, because they raise intra-
abdominal pressure and induce hypercarbia.
 
• Provide careful monitoring during general anesthesia 
to avoid raised ICP, hypotension, hypoxia, and hypo- or 
hypercarbia.
The primary determinant of mortality in a polytrauma 
patient is often the severity of the head injury.1 Even 
moderate TBI doubles predicted mortality when associated 
with extracranial injury.2 Optimal surgical management 
of extracranial injuries in polytrauma patients with 
severe TBI demands a systematic approach emphasizing 
multidisciplinary involvement and effective communication. 
Hemodynamic status dictates initial priorities for imaging 
and management. When the patient is hemodynamically 
stable, the neurologic injury may take precedence. When 
the patient is unstable because of hemorrhage from 
concomitant injury, the primary focus shifts to resuscitation 
and control of bleeding. 
Extracranial Surgical Procedure Planning
Direct the goals of therapy toward the dual tasks of 
preventing multi-organ failure and mitigating secondary 
brain injury. A recent large cohort study found significantly 
worse functional outcomes at 2 weeks and 6 months for 
patients with CT-positive acute TBI who were exposed to 
extracranial operations and anesthesia.3
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY