Source: Page 29 (RIGHT)
Page: 29, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 331
--------------------------------------------------
PATIENT MANAGEMENT
29
Assessment of Cerebral Autoregulation
Mean arterial pressure challenge: Cerebral autoregulation 
can be assessed at the bedside in the ICU by performing a 
MAP challenge while monitoring ICP in the closed cranium. 
This challenge is performed by initiating or increasing a 
vasopressor infusion in euvolemic patients to increase 
the MAP by 10–15 mm Hg for no more than 20 minutes. 
Perform a MAP challenge under the direct supervision of a 
bedside provider experienced in performing the challenge 
so that patient response and safety are assured. Perform no 
other therapeutic adjustments during the MAP challenge.
Record key physiological parameters (MAP, ICP, CPP, PbtO2) 
before and after the MAP challenge. Patients with a closed 
cranium in whom ICP increases with a MAP challenge are 
considered to have impaired autoregulation, and they may 
benefit from a lower CPP goal. Conversely, patients with a 
closed cranium in whom ICP decreases or does not change 
significantly with a MAP challenge are considered to have 
intact autoregulation, and these patients—particularly those 
with decreasing ICP in response to the MAP challenge—
may benefit from a higher CPP goal. 
Cerebrovascular pressure reactivity index: Another 
ICP-based method used to continuously assess cerebral 
autoregulation status is to follow the cerebrovascular 
pressure reactivity index (PRx). The PRx is defined as the 
slope of the regression line relating MAP and ICP, and it can 
be used to establish patient-specific CPP thresholds. For 
patients with impaired cerebral autoregulation (PRx slope 
> 0.13), a lower CPP (50–60 mm Hg) may be considered as 
an option for treatment. Patients with intact autoregulation 
(PRx slope < 0.13) may benefit from a higher CPP (60–
70 mm Hg). Of note, assessment of the PRx requires 
specialized technical expertise and additional hardware and 
software, which are commercially available.
Brain tissue oxygen tension: Autoregulation status may 
also be assessed by following PbtO2, as long as systemic 
oxygenation (PaO2) is maintained at a constant level. Verify 
this by checking the arterial blood gas before and after the 
MAP challenge.