Source: Page 63 (LEFT)
Page: 63, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 335
--------------------------------------------------
improvement are considerations, in addition to age and 
TBI severity. Take care to ensure that the pupillary light 
response is accurate and not confounded by medications 
or external injury (e.g., orbital trauma). For prognostic 
assessment, make sure to exclude conditions that confound 
the neurologic examination (e.g., sedative or analgesic 
medications, or clinical and nonconvulsive seizures). 
Standardized neurobehavioral rating scales such as the 
Coma Recovery Scale–Revised are reported to outperform 
qualitative bedside examination in detecting consciousness, 
so consider their use when evaluating prognosis.11 
Family Communication
Several recent studies highlighted the importance of 
patient-centered clinician-family communication in the 
ICU, including patients with severe TBI.12 These studies 
revealed that the way most clinicians communicate does 
not meet the needs of surrogate decision-makers. Making 
person-value congruent decisions on behalf of the patient 
must be the main focus for surrogates, yet the shock of 
sudden, unexpected TBI often leaves surrogates unprepared 
for decision-making. Shared decision-making is a person-
centered process during which the clinician and family work 
collaboratively to arrive at a decision that the patient would 
choose for themselves.13 It respects the clinician’s expertise 
while also integrating the patient’s values and preferences. 
This process is often aided by parties with dedicated time 
and long-term continuity available for these conversations 
(e.g., palliative care providers). While still undergoing 
evaluation in clinical trials, formal shared decision-making 
tools (decision aids) are being developed, and they have 
been deemed to be very helpful by families. These tools 
may be available in the future to support clinician-family 
communication related to patients with severe TBI. 
Communication between treating clinicians and 
surrogate decision-makers needs to include information 
about condition, treatment, and prognosis, as well as 
information on the journey ahead should long-term care 
be necessary and desired by patients and/or surrogates.14 
Involvement of providers with expertise in palliative care 
and symptom relief, as well as social services, is often 
helpful. Acknowledging concerns related to finances, family 
dynamics, pain, and disability are appropriate aspects of 
family and patient communication.
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY