Source: Page 31 (LEFT)
Page: 31, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 322
--------------------------------------------------
Older Adult Considerations
Little literature exists specifically addressing the use of 
multimodality monitoring in older adult patients. Thus, 
potential impacts must be extrapolated. Differences in 
the aging physiology may influence both the utility and 
interpretation of data derived from these modalities. 
 Studies published suggest a decreased use of invasive ICP 
monitoring for older adult patients and/or worse outcomes 
with use.15,16 These observations may reflect a difference 
in aggressiveness of care or decreased suspicion about 
a raised ICP due to cerebral volume loss. Other studies 
reported a negative correlation between age and invasively 
measured ICP in patients with TBI. It follows that “normal” 
ICP is believed to decrease with advancing age.17
 Aging vessels may react to brain injury insults differently 
or unpredictably. Increasing arterial stiffness translates into 
a reduction in CBF and increased blood flow pulsatility—
the net effect is impaired CBF regulation.18 Orthostatic 
episodes and syncope may expose the brain to periods of 
hypoperfusion. However, the capacity for autoregulation is 
believed to be preserved with aging.19 Chronic hypertension 
shifts the autoregulatory curve to the right, protecting 
the brain from higher blood pressures but potentially 
increasing the risk of hypoperfusion with periods of relative 
hypotension. Interpretation of pupillometry data may 
be confounded by natural changes that occur with aging 
(see the Basic Assessment section on page 10 for more 
information about pupillometry). 
 Baseline EEG abnormalities—most often diffuse or 
focal slowing, but sometimes epileptiform activity—are 
common in older adult patients with a range of medical 
comorbidities.20 While this likely reflects a certain 
prevalence of cerebral dysfunction among older adult 
patients, it may confound interpretation of an EEG 
performed in the setting of an acute change in clinical 
status.
Pediatric Considerations
Clinical examination may be more difficult to follow in 
children, and age-appropriate adaptations to maximize 
the sensitivity of a clinical exam need to be applied. Fewer 
data exist on the application of cerebral tissue oxygenation 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY