Source: Page 29 (LEFT)
Page: 29, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 300
--------------------------------------------------
NEUROMONITORING
KEY POINTS
 
• Serial clinical assessment of neurological status 
in regular intervals provides the foundation of 
neuromonitoring in TBI patients.
 
• Neuromonitoring, beyond monitoring of ICP in isolation, 
can help establish individualized patient care goals and 
therapy.
 
• Assessment of cerebral autoregulation can help 
establish CPP goals in individual patients. Consider 
performing neuromonitoring in patients who do not 
respond to initial (Tier One) therapies to decrease ICP.
 
• Impaired cerebral oxygenation can occur with both 
normal or increased ICP. Consider treatment of brain 
tissue hypoxia based on the underlying pathophysiology 
and a tiered approach of escalating therapies.
 
• Continuous electroencephalography (EEG) assists 
in seizure detection and management, especially for 
nonconvulsive seizures.
Repeated clinical assessment of neurological status 
provides the foundation of neuromonitoring in TBI. It can 
be supplemented by noninvasive methods, such as the use 
of quantitative pupillometry at set intervals to quantify the 
pupillary light reflex (see the Basic Assessment section on 
page 10). While ICP monitoring is most commonly used 
to supplement clinical assessment, other techniques can 
supplement clinical assessment as well (see Intracranial 
Pressure Monitoring on page 22).
TBI is a complex disease with substantial heterogeneity. ICP 
monitoring alone cannot detect all potential insults to the 
brain, nor does it allow for patient-specific individualized 
care based on factors such as the presence or absence 
of autoregulation. Cerebral pressure autoregulation is 
the brain’s intrinsic ability to maintain constant CBF over 
a range of systemic blood pressures. This mechanism 
protects the brain from cerebral ischemia due to 
hypotension and from excessive blood flow that can 
lead to elevated ICP. The SIBICC algorithm recommends 
assessment of autoregulation status in patients who do not 
respond to initial therapy to reduce elevated ICP (see Tier 
One in Box 3 on page 26).1 
BEST PRACTICES GUIDELINES: THE MANAGEMENT OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY