Source: Page 83 (RIGHT)
Page: 83, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 276
--------------------------------------------------
Performing a Gap Analysis
The brain injury guidelines interdisciplinary workgroup 
is charged with comparing current practices to those 
recommended in the BPG to identify gaps between the 
two. This gap analysis identifies opportunities to align 
the trauma center’s TBI management practices with the 
ACS TQP Best Practices Guidelines for the Management 
of Traumatic Brain Injury. Trauma centers that serve as a 
referral center for brain injuries may choose to not complete 
the full gap analysis but instead to review the guideline 
recommendations to identify potential opportunities for 
improvement. The workgroup, in conjunction with the 
trauma center’s operations committee, establishes the 
priorities for changes. Progress reports regarding the 
completion of these identified tasks are provided to the 
trauma operations committee. Refer to Table 8 for examples 
of gap assessment recommendations. 
Once the gap analysis is completed, the next step is to 
revise or develop the trauma center’s TBI management 
guidelines for the phases of care provided by the trauma 
center. The TBI management guidelines are reviewed and 
approved by the trauma operations committee and the 
TMD. The operations committee is responsible for the 
dissemination of and communication about the revised TBI 
management guidelines to individuals who participate in 
trauma care.
Interdisciplinary Education Plan 
Development
The next priority is development of an interdisciplinary 
education plan for the guidelines that define TBI 
management needs for each unit and phase of care. This 
education plan outlines the expectations for the various 
health professional roles involved in TBI assessment and 
management, as well as the specific tasks associated 
with assessment, documentation, interventions, and 
reassessment. Refer to Table 9 for education plan 
elements to consider for integration of TBI best practices 
recommendations.