Source: Page 11 (RIGHT)
Page: 11, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 375
--------------------------------------------------
Page 10 of 13
patients as moderate and high-risk patients are relatively
uncommon and other patients should preferentially have
a CT.
Feedback from ED evaluation and from stakeholders
resulted in minor changes to wording and general
appearance of the guidelines. All stakeholders and the
working group approved the final version, see Additional
file 7, Figure S2.
Implementation, monitoring and future updates
The working group decided on implementation by SNC
members in their respective countries. This would be
performed through a combination of written and oral
presentations in national medical journals and national
meetings, respectively. We discussed barriers to implementation and decided that the most important of these
was probably the absence of sufficient education concerning head injury management in Scandinavia. We
would attempt to further facilitate implementation by
printing flyers and placards with the guidelines and to
send these to Scandinavian hospitals. We would also
initiate national training initiatives within the respective
Scandinavian countries.
With respect to monitoring aspects, the working group
decided to plan a questionnaire to Scandinavian physicians treating head injury to determine the present use of
guidelines, similar to previous efforts [31]. At 1 year following implementation, a follow-up questionnaire will be
sent out to establish changes in management routines.
We will also initiate studies examining compliance with
the guidelines, as previously established in Norway
[27,28], and attempt to improve insufficient use of the
guidelines depending on these results. Finally, we will
initiate a prospective validation study, also comparing the
performance of our guidelines with other guidelines,
decision rules and, importantly, unstructured physician
judgment [32].
The working group decided that an update of the
guidelines would be necessary in 2015. This would
include evidence updates concerning the clinical questions addressed in the present update and would further
examine the observation and monitoring routines for
admitted patients.
Discussion
Since 2000, considerable evidence has emerged concerning the initial management, particularly risk factors for
CT selection, of minimal, mild and moderate head injury.
The work presented here is, in contrast to our previous
guidelines, confined to adults but a similar effort regarding management of children is underway. Although these
guidelines can theoretically be used in any setting, they
were designed with the Scandinavian emergency care setting in mind. They are also designed to primarily identify