Source: Page 12 (LEFT)
Page: 12, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 465
--------------------------------------------------
Undén et al. BMC Medicine 2013, 11:50
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/50
patients needing neurosurgical or medical intervention,
with traumatic CT findings being the secondary identification goal.
In summary, the evidence was of reasonable quality
referring to the predictive ability of risk factors for complications following head injury in these patients. Unsurprisingly, many of the risk factors included here are also
found in other guidelines and decision rules [6,9-11,29,33].
However, several differences can be noted. We found that
the predictive power of amnesia was too low to be
included. This risk factor was present in the SNC guidelines from 2000, mostly due to the difficultly in ruling out
loss of consciousness in some patients. For this reason, we
include suspected loss of consciousness as a risk factor.
Risk factors such as intoxication, trauma above the clavicles, nausea, vertigo and headache were not included
due to poor predictive ability combined with a high prevalence of these factors in the head injury population.
The working group found injury mechanisms complicated to use practically in initial management and
decided not to include these as risk factors.
Older age, most often defined as ≥60 or ≥65 years, is
often included in other guidelines. The predictive ability of
this risk factor was only moderate and there was considerable uncertainty in the group with regard to patient
important outcomes and resource use. The number of
people in older age groups in industrialized countries is
increasing [34] and the increased CT rate that would be
associated with this risk factor was deemed unacceptable.
Also, the risk factor is common in the head injury cohorts,
with between 10% and 45% of patients being over 65 years
of age in reported cohorts of mild [10,35-38] and moderate [39] TBI. Fabbri et al. recently presented results considering the combination of older age and antiplatelet
agents [40]. Despite the lack of good evidence for this
combination, consensus was reached to include age ≥65
years in combination with any antiplatelet agent as a risk
factor. It is reasonable to expect that the combination
would be more predictive of complications after head
injury and result in a smaller CT rate increase when compared to the risk factors used individually. Additionally, it
has been suggested that antiplatelet medication may be at
least partly responsible for the higher risks for intracranial
complications seen after head injury in older patients [40].
Shunt-treated hydrocephalus was added purely based
on consensus, with evidence derived from expert opinion
in the group. We acknowledge the poor evidence-based
background to this decision but this patient group is
uncommon and will not lead to a noticeable increase in
CT scanning.
Evidence concerning repeat CT was reasonable but lacking concerning both written discharge advice and observation routines. These aspects were therefore based heavily
upon consensus with special weight put on adaptation to