Source: Page 3 (RIGHT)
Page: 3, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 417
--------------------------------------------------
Page 2 of 13
discharge (or combinations of these) from the ED. Head
injury severity was predefined according to the Head
Injury Severity Score (HISS [21]) where minimal represents patients with a GCS score of 15 and no risk factors,
mild is a GCS score of 14 or 15 with risk factors (such as
amnesia or loss of consciousness (LOC)) and moderate is
a GCS score of 9 to 13.
The rationale was primarily to identify all patients
needing neurosurgical intervention, including medical
intervention for high intracranial pressure (assigned a
critical level with regard to patient-important outcomes).
The secondary goals (assigned important, but not critical, with regard to patient-important outcomes) were
identification of non-neurosurgical intracranial traumatic complications and also strong consideration of
resource use with minimization of unnecessary (normal)
CT scans and/or admission.
The task force decided a priori to make an attempt to
keep the guidelines applicable to the complete patient
spectrum within EDs, that is, to ensure that all adult
patients with minimal, mild and moderate head injury
can be managed according to the guidelines.
Certain assumptions were also made a priori concerning aspects of management that were deemed unnecessary for critical review. The task force all agreed that
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) would not be considered in these guidelines concerning initial management and that in-hospital observation, instead of CT,
would be regarded only as a secondary management
option. The use of plain skull films was addressed and
rejected in the previous guidelines. Additionally, we
chose not to consider later aspects of management, such
as detection and treatment of post-concussion syndrome
(PCS) and chronic subdural hematomas. We also agreed
that all pathological findings on head CT should lead
to hospital admission. Finally, we would not address
the surgical or medical management of intracranial
complications.
The task force was unclear concerning the selection of
patients for CT scanning or discharge, following minimal,
mild and moderate head injuries. We were also unclear
concerning which patients, irrespective of initial CT scan
results, should have hospital admission for clinical observation, a repeat CT scan, or both. Therefore, consensus
was achieved to address two important clinical questions
that would require systematic review of evidence and
would form the basis of the updated guidelines, shown
below.
Clinical question 1: ‘Which adult patients with minimal, mild and moderate head injury need a head CT
and which patients may be directly discharged?’.
Clinical question 2: ‘Which adult patients with minimal, mild and moderate head injury need in-hospital
observation and/or a repeat head CT?’.