Source: Page 6 (RIGHT)
Page: 6, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 385
--------------------------------------------------
Page 5 of 13
strong recommendation despite low quality evidence or vice
versa.
Recommendations and guideline development
Based upon the recommendations, a draft for the updated
guidelines was constructed by the task force. Following
this, a modified Delphi process was used [26], involving
the working group previously described, consisting of at
least two rounds of consensus. The a priori criteria to
determine acceptance, rejection or lack of consensus are
shown in Table 2. In the first round, the recommendations, including data from included studies with CEBM,
QUADAS and GRADE evaluations together with a guideline draft were sent via email to the working group.
Ratings, including feedback, were anonymously collected.
The task force adjusted the recommendations and draft
based upon these responses. Then, in conjunction with a
2-day SNC meeting in September 2012 outside Copenhagen, Denmark, results were discussed and suggestions for
improvements made. Following this, the second round of
Delhi was completed via email. Additional rounds would
be undertaken if necessary. The task force and working
group were urged to consider the GRADE aspects previously mentioned, especially health risk/benefit aspects
including resource use, as well as side effects and risks
(misclassification of patients), at all stages of development.
The final guidelines were evaluated, independently of
the task force and working group, in the ED of Skane
University Hospital, Malmo, Sweden, to judge clarity of
presentation and ease of use. Simultaneously, the guidelines were evaluated by important stakeholders from
specialties directly involved in the everyday management
of these patients. Feedback was documented and appropriate changes were made, if necessary, but only to consensus aspects. Finally, the working group reapproved
the guidelines after presentation of changes and feedback from the evaluation.
Implementation, monitoring and future updates
Guidelines will only be successful if they are used correctly
and on a wide scale. Previous experience with the 2000
Scandinavian guidelines has shown poor compliance and
varying degrees of implementation success [27,28]. Implementation and monitoring strategies were discussed within
the working group in order to facilitate long-term successful
use of the guidelines in Scandinavia. Focus was put on overcoming barriers to application and effectively using available
resources. The working group also outlined a procedure
and approximate time period for updating the guidelines.
Results
The search and selection process is shown in Figures 2
and 3 for the two clinical questions.