Source: Page 7 (LEFT)
Page: 7, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 487
--------------------------------------------------
Undén et al. BMC Medicine 2013, 11:50
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/50
Table 1 Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system [24] for rating
quality of evidence and strength of recommendation
Factor
Description
Evidence:
High quality
Considerable confidence of the estimate of effect. Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the
estimated effect.
Moderate quality
Confidence that the estimate is close to the truth. Further research is likely to have an important impact on our
confidence in the estimate effect and may change the estimate.
Low quality
Limited confidence in the effect. Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the
estimate effect and is likely to change the estimate.
Very low quality
Little confidence in the effect estimate. Any change of effect is uncertain.
Recommendation:
Strong: ‘We recommend...’
A strong recommendation indicates that most well informed people will make the same choice
Weak: ‘We suggest...’
A weak recommendation indicates that the majority of well informed people will make the same choice but a
substantial minority will not
Uncertain: ‘We cannot
recommend...’
No specific recommendation for or against
Factors influencing the strength of the recommendation include evidence quality, risk/benefit aspects of presumed patient-important outcomes, costs and
uncertainty concerning values and preferences.
For the first clinical question, we found 72 studies that
adhered to our inclusion criteria (see Additional File 2,
Table S2 for evidentiary information). These studies
included 226,606 individual patients. The level of evidence
according to CEBM was variable and overall judged to be
moderate (see Additional file 2, Table S2). Quality assessment with the QUADAS tool (see Additional file 3, Table
S3) showed substantial bias in the studies, particularly
concerning the representativeness of the studied population (selection bias, criteria 1), blinding of the index test
(criteria 8) and withdrawals (criteria 12). Studies scored
better regarding the reporting of selection criteria (criteria
2) and most had acceptable reference standards (criteria
3), although they were often described poorly.
Clinical predictors, with according source study, PLR,
NLR, reference test prevalence and risk factor prevalence are shown in Additional file 1, Table S1.
With regard to the second clinical question, we found
21 studies adhering to our inclusion criteria (see Additional file 4, Table S4 for evidentiary information and
relevant results). The CEBM rating was generally low,
with several studies reporting non-independent reference
standards (see Additional file 4, Table S4). QUADAS
Table 2 A priori established seven-point response scale and criteria to determine acceptance, rejection or lack of
consensus for recommendations and guidelines for the working group using a modified Delphi process [25]
Level of agreement
Strongly
disagree
Disagree Moderately
Neither agree or disagree
Moderately
agree
disagree
Score
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Criteria 75% of respondents score ≤3 on the 7-point scale
All other situations
75% of respondents score 5≥on the 7point scale
Result
Consensus against
No consensus
Consensus in favor
Action
Reject recommendation
Indicates no consensus has been
reached