Source: Page 11 (LEFT)
Page: 11, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 439
--------------------------------------------------
Undén et al. BMC Medicine 2013, 11:50
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/50
neurological status. A strong recommendation was chosen
in spite of weak evidence due to the seriousness of the
condition. Clinical aspects such as anticoagulation and
persistent neurological findings were discussed but the
working group could not reach consensus on a recommendation for follow-up scans in these patients.
Guidelines
Based upon the recommendations, guidelines were constructed. The addition of shunt-treated hydrocephalus
was based upon consensus in the working group with
little evidence to support this. The working group discussed risk factors relating to trauma mechanism and
multitrauma injuries but found these difficult to recommend, mainly due to practical issues with clinical application. We considered serious extracranial injuries
(defined as Abbreviated Injury Score (AIS) >3 to any
organ system, for instance large (for example, femur)
fractures or serious thoracic or abdominal injuries) as a
risk factor due to the probability of a higher magnitude
of trauma, need for extracranial CT and the poorer
prognosis of brain injury in these patients. However, we
finally decided to omit this as a risk factor primarily due
to the difficulty of classifying this risk factor in a busy
clinical scenario. Additionally, predictive ability was generally only moderate for these risk factors. Also, loss of
consciousness was expanded to suspected/confirmed
loss of consciousness, as it is often difficult to confirm
this finding in the clinical setting. Patients who could
not clearly deny any loss of consciousness should be
classed as suspected. Finally, the working group could
not recommend older age or antiplatelet medication as
individual risk factors due to the unacceptable CT
increase such a recommendation would cause, in combination with only moderate predictive abilities. However,
consensus was reached to combine these into one risk
factor, namely age ≥65 years and antiplatelet medication.
Written instructions for patients being discharged were
adapted from the 2000 guidelines with consideration of
the National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE)
instructions [29] and a proposal for evidence-based
instructions from Fung et al. [30], (see Additional file 6,
Figure S1). With the Scandinavian setting in mind, the
discharge sheet was heavily simplified for clarity. Observation and monitoring routines for admitted patients
were based on consensus in the working group. We discussed the intensity of monitoring routines in relation to
the severity of the complications and burden on hospital
wards and finally decided that these should be relatively
frequent shortly after trauma (the first 4 h) with de-escalation over time. Reasonably, most admitted patients will
arrive to a ward after at least 4 h and hence already have
passed the 15-minute interval period. Also, these monitoring routines will only be used in small minority of