Source: Page 3 (LEFT)
Page: 3, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 405
--------------------------------------------------
Undén et al. BMC Medicine 2013, 11:50
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/50
health care resources. This selective management has
received more attention following reports of increased
cancer risks from CT scans, estimated at 1 in 5,000 to
10,000 for a single head CT scan in young adults [12].
Following a normal CT scan after mild head injury,
consensus is generally to discharge patients from the hospital [13,14], although subgroups of patients may still be
at risk of developing delayed intracranial complications
of varying significance [15,16].
In 2000, the Scandinavian Neurotrauma Committee
(SNC) presented evidence-based guidelines for the initial
management of minimal, mild and moderate head injuries [5]. Although external and independent validation
has shown the guidelines to function favorably [17,18], it
is likely that new evidence exists which needs to be considered. The SNC has therefore mandated an update of
the guidelines. The aim of the present report is to present
these updated guidelines for adults, including the methodology and considerations behind the workflow.
Methods
The overall policy was to follow the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation (AGREE) II guideline
development framework [19], complemented by the
Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development
and Evaluation (GRADE) system [20]. Consensus was that
these two aids would result in a transparent and systematic
methodology and the best possible workflow from available
evidence to guideline construction and implementation.
The overall workflow process is shown in Figure 1.
Task force, working group and stakeholders
The SNC consists of neurosurgeons and anesthesiologists
from Scandinavia with expertise in neurotrauma. A task
force was initiated within the SNC, consisting of three
authors with experience within the field (JU, TI, BR), to
propose evidence-based recommendations and a draft for
the updated guidelines. For the consensus stage of development, a working group was formed consisting of SNC
members. Important stakeholders from general surgery,
emergency medicine and orthopedics were also involved
in this process. These specialties initially manage the vast
majority of head injury patients in Scandinavia. We also
considered including members of the public in the process but unanimously decided against this as we did not
believe it would facilitate optimal guideline development
in the present scenario.
Scope, purpose and target population
The objective of the guidelines created in the present
work would be to assist ED physicians with initial (the
first 24 h) management of all adult patients with minimal,
mild and moderate head injury, specifically to decide
which patients are to receive CT scanning, admission or