Source: Page 2 (LEFT)
Page: 2, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 436
--------------------------------------------------
Undén et al. BMC Medicine 2013, 11:50
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/50
GUIDELINE
Open Access
Scandinavian guidelines for initial management
of minimal, mild and moderate head injuries in
adults: an evidence and consensus-based update
Johan Undén1*, Tor Ingebrigtsen2 and Bertil Romner3, for the Scandinavian Neurotrauma Committee (SNC)
See related commentary article here http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/51
Abstract
Background: The management of minimal, mild and moderate head injuries is still controversial. In 2000, the
Scandinavian Neurotrauma Committee (SNC) presented evidence-based guidelines for initial management of these
injuries. Since then, considerable new evidence has emerged.
Methods: General methodology according to the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation (AGREE) II
framework and the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system.
Systematic evidence-based review according to Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and MetaAnalyses (PRISMA) methodology, based upon relevant clinical questions with respect to patient-important
outcomes, including Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS) and Centre of Evidence Based
Medicine (CEBM) quality ratings. Based upon the results, GRADE recommendations, guidelines and discharge
instructions were drafted. A modified Delphi approach was used for consensus and relevant clinical stakeholders
were consulted.
Conclusions: We present the updated SNC guidelines for initial management of minimal, mild and moderate head
injury in adults including criteria for computed tomography (CT) scan selection, admission and discharge with
suggestions for monitoring routines and discharge advice for patients. The guidelines are designed to primarily
detect neurosurgical intervention with traumatic CT findings as a secondary goal. For elements lacking good
evidence, such as in-hospital monitoring, routines were largely based on consensus. We suggest external validation
of the guidelines before widespread clinical use is recommended.
Keywords: computed tomography, GRADE, guidelines, head/brain injury/trauma, management, prediction rule,
routines, S100/S100B/S100BB
Background
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is one of the most common
reasons for emergency department (ED) care [1]. Cases
of TBI account for over 1 million visits per year in both
the USA and the UK [2,3] and are responsible for twothirds of all trauma deaths [4]. Only a small proportion
of these are classed as severe head injury [1], with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 3 to 8. The majority of
patients are instead classed as minimal, mild and
* Correspondence: dr.johan.unden@gmail.com
1Department of Intensive Care and Perioperative Medicine, Institute for
Clinical Sciences, Södra Förstadsgatan 101, 20502 Malmö, Sweden
Full list of author information is available at the end of the article
© 2013 Undén et al; licensee BioMed Central Ltd. This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in
any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.