Source: Page 6 (LEFT)
Page: 6, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 426
--------------------------------------------------
Undén et al. BMC Medicine 2013, 11:50
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/50
population. We felt that these indices would represent the
most relevant clinical applications for the working group
when considering the recommendations. For the second
clinical question, we presented only descriptive analysis.
Evidence summary and recommendations draft
Recommendations were formed by the task force (JU, TI,
BR) based upon the evidence in accordance with the
GRADE system [20,25]. This system is increasingly been
used in the development of recommendations and allows
consideration of aspects other than level of evidence in
determining the strength of a recommendation [25].
Clinical predictors were chosen based upon the summarized evidence (see Additional file 1, Table S1). Focus was
put on the more severe outcome variables (need for neurosurgery being of critical importance), but ICI and any
CT findings were also considered, especially in cases
where the evidence concerning neurosurgery was poor
and/or inconsistent. We also considered the prevalence
of the risk factors in the studied cohorts. Risk factors
relatively common in a population would lead to many
CT scans and these risk factors would therefore need to
show high predictive abilities to be included.
The summarized quality of evidence, from studies
forming the basis of a recommendation, was graded from
high quality to very low quality, see Table 1. Evidence
was initially considered high quality when derived from
cohort studies reporting patients with diagnostic uncertainty and appropriate reference standards, as described
earlier. Evidence could be downgraded due to risk of bias
(selection (population indirectness), verification, observer
and reporting), outcome indirectness (balance between
the presumed influence on patient outcome of the test
result (combination of risk factors) in relation to the
complications and resource use of the test), inconsistency
(large differences in prevalence of reference tests, prevalence of risk factors, PLR or NLR) or differing general
results between studies), impreciseness (studies with
small number of patients and few positive CT, ICI or
neurosurgery events) and suspicion of publication bias
(small number of studies, industry funding).
Recommendations, relating to the clinical questions,
were classed as strong (we recommend...), weak (we
suggest...) or uncertain (we cannot recommend...) (see
Table 1). For this process, careful consideration was again
made to risk/benefit aspects of patient-important outcomes
(need for neurosurgery was classed as the most important)
in relation to test results, including assumptions for pretest
probabilities (different magnitudes of risk for a positive
reference result of CT, ICI or neurosurgery) for different
patients, quality of evidence, uncertainty of the preferences
and values for outcomes and the use of health care
resources. Therefore, it is theoretically possible to achieve a