Source: Page 5 (RIGHT)
Page: 5, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 431
--------------------------------------------------
Page 4 of 13
more homogenous selection compared to a combined
definition. Finally, neurosurgical intervention was
defined as any neurosurgical procedure for a cranial or
intracranial injury within the first week following
trauma. Medical treatment for elevated intracranial pressure, within the first week following trauma, was also
included in this group since some patients with diffuse
brain injury cannot be managed surgically.
Data extraction and quality assessment
Data was extracted by one author (JU) and checked by
another (BR). Data was entered into a predefined protocol
and then inputted into Excel (Microsoft; Redmond, WA,
USA). Evidentiary tables were constructed to summaries
the studies. We decided to address the quality of papers in
different phases, due to the nature of the studies and the
phase of assessment. Firstly, all retrieved studies were
independently graded by all authors in the task force (JU,
TI, BR) according to the Centre of Evidence Based Medicine (CEBM) diagnosis criteria [23]. Discrepancies in grading were resolved through discussion. Quality ratings
ranged from 1 (strongest evidence, for instance reports of
clinical decision rules and high quality validation studies)
to 5 (weakest evidence, often expert opinion). Studies
receiving CEBM scores of 5 were excluded.
Studies were then graded according to the Quality
Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS)
tool [24], which was modified for the purpose of the
review. This tool considers 14 criteria relevant to diagnostic studies accounting for bias (items 3 to 7, 10 to 12),
variability (items 1 and 2) and reporting (items 8 and 9).
Items 4 (regarding the time period between index and
reference test) and 7 (regarding the independency of the
reference test) were omitted with regard to the selection
criteria and the previously applied CEBM criteria. Additionally, item 3 (regarding the ability of the reference test
to correctly classify the target condition) was applied to
CT findings, ICI and neurosurgery separately.
Data analysis
Although extracted data regarding the first clinical question, predictors of CT findings, ICI and neurosurgery,
could theoretically be summarized in a meta-analysis, the
task force decided a priori not to perform such an analysis
for the purpose of development of the guidelines, independent of heterogeneity between studies. We felt combining
the data in this way could mislead the working group in
the consensus process and opted to instead present
uncombined data for studies including their quality assessment. We therefore calculated individual positive likelihood ratios (PLR) and negative likelihood ratios (NLR) for
each risk factor with respect to the corresponding reference test (CT, ICI or neurosurgery) and the prevalence
of both the reference test and the risk factor in the