Source: Page 12 (RIGHT)
Page: 12, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 437
--------------------------------------------------
Page 11 of 13
the Scandinavian health care system. Since in-hospital
observation consumes valuable resources, there is a need
for stronger evidence examining the need and magnitude
of these routines.
For the first time, a brain biomarker has been introduced into clinical practice guidelines. Using a low cutoff of 0.10 μg/l, the biomarker has shown considerable
ability to predict the absence of CT pathology and neurosurgical intervention [36,41,42]. This negative prediction
is welcomed since all other risk factors are of positive
predictive nature. S100B allows for a safe reduction in
CT scans in a subpopulation of patients with mild head
injury. In order to maintain the theoretical safety and
cost-saving ability, the biomarker should primarily not
exhibit false negative results. Also, the biomarker should
only be taken in patients that would usually receive a CT
scan and the fraction of negative S100B results (below
cut-off) should be as large as possible. S100B is clinically
unspecific [43,44] and has a short half-life [45]. Therefore, patients with extracranial injuries and those seeking
care more than 6 h after trauma are not good candidates
for S100B sampling due to a risk of false positives and
negatives, respectively. Some patients have risk factors
with higher predictive abilities and also factors that
would usually warrant admission irrespective of CT findings. This group is therefore also not suitable for S100B
sampling. Despite the relatively good evidence for S100B
in this setting, biomarkers have historically had different
effects in actual management and the clinical impact and
health economic implications may alter future recommendations. Based upon the current evidence and clinical
setting, however, this biomarker should safely reduce
resource use if used correctly since low levels are very
uncommon in patients needing neurosurgical intervention in this setting.
There are limitations to the process outlined in this
paper. Although the recommendations are based upon
evidence, there were elements of consensus input to the
final guidelines. This is inevitable when dealing with
these injuries and we attempted to minimize the negative
effects of this through our stringent and extensive methodology using the best available tools. Particularly, the
GRADE system [20] allows consideration of other important aspects other than the level of evidence in recommendations. The derivation and validation of predictive
risk factors as performed by other authors [6,10,18]
would hardly be feasible in Scandinavia and would only
account for one aspect of the management guidelines.
Our methodology was judged as the most feasible considering the target population. However, external clinical
validation of our guidelines is welcomed and would naturally support successful implementation.
Finally, these guidelines are, by definition, guidelines
and should be utilized accordingly. They are primarily