Source: Page 5 (LEFT)
Page: 5, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 418
--------------------------------------------------
Undén et al. BMC Medicine 2013, 11:50
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/50
OR multiple OR serial OR follow-up) AND (CT OR CCT
OR computed tomography)).
Additional papers were identified by hand-searching
bibliographies of retrieved studies.
Selection criteria and study eligibility
Titles were examined by one author (JU) and borderline
titles were included. Titles that were obviously not relevant were excluded. Abstracts were examined independently by two authors (JU, BR) and the third (TI) was
consulted when discrepancies arose. Selected full papers
were independently reviewed by all authors (JU, TI, BR)
and discrepancies were resolved through discussion.
Review articles, letters, expert opinion and editorials
could be retrieved for examination of bibliographies but
were excluded from the analysis. Papers reporting only
children (<18 years) were excluded in both searches. In
cases where essential data was missing or unclear, we
made an attempt to contact corresponding authors for
clarification. Studies including patients with all severities
of head injury were only included if at least 50% of
patients were within the GCS 9 to 15 range.
For the first clinical question, we included studies
reporting patients with admission/initial GCS scores ≥9
and that included one or more predictive risk factors for
the reference standards of CT findings, intracranial
injury (ICI) and/or neurosurgical intervention. We
decided a priori to only include studies where information concerning true positives (TP), false positives (FP),
true negatives (TN) and false negatives (FN) could be
extracted. This information would be necessary to fully
appreciate the possible clinical effect and role of a risk
factor, allowing consideration of other effects than the
positive predictive power. Studies reporting less than 50
patients were excluded. Definitions for risk factors were
defined a priori.
For the second clinical question, we included studies
reporting patients with admission/initial GCS scores ≥9
with an initial CT scan (normal or abnormal) and contained information regarding clinical characteristics that
were associated with a positive or worsening repeat CT
scan, ICI and/or neurosurgical intervention within 1
week following trauma.
CT findings were defined as any traumatic finding on
head CT. ICI was defined as any intracranial (isolated
non-depressed cranial fractures not included) traumatic
finding on CT. Also, since not all patients can be subjected to CT, absence of ICI was defined as relevant and
robust clinical follow-up suggestive of normal neurological functioning (with the exception of classical PCS
symptoms). The decision to consider any CT findings
and ICI as separate reference standards was due to the
difference in clinical importance of these measures. This
approach should also stratify reference standards in a