Source: Page 10 (RIGHT)
Page: 10, Side: RIGHT
Word Count: 408
--------------------------------------------------
Page 9 of 13
however, found these risk factors to be too predictive of
intracranial injury.
This recommendation may seem conflicting with
recommendation 1, above. However, S100B is recommended as an option for reducing unnecessary CT
scans in a subgroup of Mild head injury patients with
low risk for intracranial complication and/or neurosurgical intervention.
(3) We recommend that adult patients after minimal
and mild head injury with GCS 15 and without risk factors (loss of consciousness, repeated (≥2) vomiting,
anticoagulation therapy or coagulation disorders, posttraumatic seizures, clinical signs of depressed or basal
skull fracture, focal neurological deficits) can be discharged from the hospital without a CT scan (moderate
quality, strong recommendation).
The evidence was initially of high quality but was
downgraded due to limitations in study design (mostly
selection bias), indirectness (outcomes were rarely
reported) and impreciseness (different magnitudes of
predictive power of risk factors between studies). The
working group felt, however, that the large proportion
of patients with head injury would fall into this category
and that a CT policy in all these patients would not be
health/economically viable considering the very low risk
of intracranial injury, and even lower risk of neurosurgery, in this patient group. As previously discussed,
older age and antiplatelet medication was again considered but rejected by the working group.
Clinical question 2: ‘Which adult patients with minimal,
mild and moderate head injury need in-hospital
observation and/or a repeat head CT?’
(1) We suggest that all adult patients after head injury
with GCS ≤13, clinical signs of depressed or basal skull
fracture, anticoagulation therapy or coagulation disorder,
post-traumatic seizure or focal neurological deficit
should have a CT scan and be admitted to hospital for
observation, irrespective of CT findings (low quality,
weak recommendation).
The evidence was sparse and also of low quality due to
study limitations (selection bias) and inconsistency in
findings. The working group felt that it would not be
good clinical practice to discharge patients with any of
these risk factors, despite the low quality of evidence.
(2) We recommend that repeat CT scans should be performed in patients with neurological and/or GCS (≥2
points) deterioration (low quality, strong recommendation).
The evidence was of moderate quality and was downgraded due to serious limitations in study design and
some inconsistency. Most of the evidence indicates that
routine repeat CT of these patients with or without CT
findings is unnecessary in the absence of clinical deterioration, specifically deterioration of GCS >2 points and/or