Source: Page 3 (MIDDLE)
Page: 3, Side: MIDDLE
Word Count: 311
--------------------------------------------------
GCS impairment,23,27–29
depressed
skull fracture,28,30,31 basal skull fracture,28,32 recurrent vomiting33,34 or
age 65 years or over2,30 are at high
risk of requiring neurological treatment and should have urgent CT
imaging. Although a normal CT
scan does not preclude latent hemorrhage, the incidence of significant
deterioration in these patients is exceedingly low and justifies chaperoned discharge when clinically
well.35 In contrast, radiographic evidence of intracranial injury warrants
a neurosurgical consultation. If the
patient is being evaluated in a tertiary care centre, the neurosurgical
housestaff should be contacted directly. However, if the emergency
department encounter occurs in a
nontertiary centre, the attending
physician should immediately contact the local neurosurgeon on-call,
which, in our system, may be accomplished by calling the Trauma
Hotline. The neurosurgeon on-call
is available to review the history
(via telephone contact with the referring 
emergency 
department
physician) and radiology (via viewing the CT scan on a province-wide
real-time digital imaging system)
and will provide advice regarding
patient disposition and management (Box 2).
Box 2: Approach to adults with minor head injuries*†
CT urgently needed if all 3 of the following criteria are met
1. History of blunt head trauma within past 24 h
2. History of loss of consciousness, amnesia or disorientation
3. One or more of the following risk factors present:
GCS score < 15 after 2 h after injury
Suspected open or depressed skull fracture
Signs of basal skull fracture
Recurrent vomiting
Age > 65 yr
Abnormal CT
Urgent neurosurgical consultation.
Normal CT or no CT indicated
Discharge when clinically well. Follow up with family doctor.
GCS = Glasgow Coma Scale.
*GCS score 13–15.
†These patients are neurologically well but may be at risk of delayed
complications. Indications for CT imaging and choice of disposition are the
primary issues of acute care. Patients with a deteriorating GCS or penetrating
head trauma are managed as a major head injury.