Source: Page 4 (LEFT)
Page: 4, Side: LEFT
Word Count: 349
--------------------------------------------------
Hebb et al
or intracranial injuries without evidence of scalp trauma or neurological deficits.44,48,50–52 Therefore, it is recommended that children aged under
2 years undergo CT imaging if there
is evidence of a neurological abnormality, such as decreased level of
consciousness, nausea, lethargy or
agitation. All asymptomatic children
under age 1 year who present with a
scalp hematoma require skull radiography and, if abnormal, a subsequent
CT scan and neurosurgical consultation (Box 3).45,52–54
Children aged 2 to 15 years
Children in this age group with recent head trauma and a GCS score of
13 or 14 are at high risk of harbouring an intracranial lesion and 
require urgent CT imaging.55–57
Post-traumatic amnesia and loss of
consciousness have traditionally been
considered risk factors for TBI; however, there are no prospective studies
that have identified one or more clinical signs that accurately predict intracranial abnormalities.9,39,51,58,59 The
guidelines published by the American Academy of Pediatrics recomBox 3: Approach to children with minor head injuries*†
Age < 2 yr
Urgent CT head indicated if symptomatic (vomiting,
lethargic, irritable) or neurologically abnormal.
If asymptomatic and neurologically normal, no further
studies are required, except for children < 1 year with a
scalp hematoma; then, obtain skull x-rays and CT head if
plain radiography is abnormal.
Age 2 to 15 yr
Obtain CT head if GCS < 15.
If GCS = 15 and there is a history of loss of consciousness or
posttraumatic amnesia, then either CT head or observe
overnight.
If GCS = 15 with no history of loss of consciousness or posttraumatic amnesia, obtain CT head if ≥1 of the following
are present:
Change in GCS score
Focal neurological deficit
Clinical evidence of skull fracture
Coagulopathy
All pediatric trauma patients with radiographic abnormalities
of the head require urgent neurosurgical consultation.
GCS = Glasgow Coma Scale.
*GCS score 13–15.
†Young children (< 2 yr) are at highest risk of intracranial injury after trauma
and present a difficult population to assess owing to limited verbal and
behavioural repertoires. Evidence of child abuse must be thoroughly
investigated.
190
J can chir, Vol. 50, No 3, juin 2007